Title: A (Second Raikage)
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/A_(Second_Raikage)
-----------------------

was the  of Kumogakure. Throughout his reign he worked hard towards building peace between the other hidden villages.

 Background 

Before becoming the Second Raikage, he had a long tenure as the First Raikage's guard. During his service, he accompanied him to the first ever Five Kage Summit. There he stood behind the First watching diligently as the proceedings unfolded.Naruto chapter 648, pages 6-11

Eventually, his long service and dedication earned him the appointment of Second Raikage. During his tenure, A entered Kumogakure into a formal alliance with Konohagakure, however, during the ceremony both he, and the Second Hokage were ambushed by the Gold and Silver Brothers, who were attempting to stage a coup d'état. Both A and the Second Hokage were brought to the verge of death during that battle.Jin no Sho, page 313Naruto chapter 527, page 4 Overall A's actions helped Kumogakure a lot in the way of achieving peace.

 Personality 
A inherited the strong will of his predecessor to protect Kumogakure. He was also described as being friendly and intelligent, seen by his versed knowledge in politics.

 Appearance 

A was a dark-skinned man with a broad, flat nose and dark eyes which had markings underneath them. He had shoulder-length, black hair which he wore in a peculiar style, along with a stylised beard which tapered off into a goatee. He also had sideburns which curved inwards, just underneath his eyes. He wore the standard attire of the Kumo-nin which included a white forehead protector, along with a high-collared shirt with mesh armour underneath. Over all this he wore a slight variation of Kumogakure's modern flak jacket which was seemingly decorated with medals of sorts. He also wore plated armour that covered his right shoulder reminiscent of those worn by samurai. He also has a gold-coloured, rectangular marking on his nose.

Before becoming the Second Raikage, he wore a long sleeved dark-coloured shirt which was opened to reveal the mesh-armour shirt underneath along with a scarf that hung around his neck, dark-coloured pants and a simple headband.Naruto chapter 648, pages 6-7, 11

 Abilities 
Though not much is known about his abilities, the fact that he was the appointed the Second Raikage indicates he was undoubtedly a powerful shinobi. Even before becoming a Kage, his skills were such that he was appointed to be the guard of his predecessor — something he gained much renown for. He was also credited to be well versed in political aspects, indicating a decent amount of intelligence.

 Part II 
 Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes 

Subsequent to Kaguya Ōtsutsuki being sealed by Naruto Uzumaki and Sasuke Uchiha, he and the other deceased Kage were summoned from the Pure Land by Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki to aid him and the Hokage in summoning Team 7, the tailed beasts and Madara Uchiha from Kaguya's dimension. Later, his and the other Kage's souls were returned to the Pure Land.