Title: Ada
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Ada
-----------------------

is a former member of Kara and a citizen of Konohagakure.

 Background 
In his plot to kill Jigen, Amado heavily modified Ada, along with her younger brother Daemon, with Shinobi-Ware and Shibai Ōtsutsuki‘s DNA, giving them capabilities exceeding that of Jigen. The effects of her modifications left her forever despising Amado. Because of her superior might, Jigen had ordered for her disposal. Boro was given the order. However, affected by Ada's powers, Boro could not bring himself to complete the task, and instead hid Ada and Daemon in a remote location operated by his cult for his own uses.

 Personality 
Ada is a very cold and indifferent person who cares little for the events around her. This comes from having grown bored in the life that was forced upon her. With all people automatically drawn to her and unable to physically oppose her, she actually finds someone able to resist her at all amusing. In reality, she is very lonely, wanting genuine companionship, and not just people mindlessly fawning over her, even if just platonic relationship. At the same time, being so used to people not able to oppose her, facing people who can and desire her harm visibly frightens her, eager to avoid dealing with them as much as possible. 

Stemming from a lack of experiencing genuine love, her greatest desire is to find someone to give her such. Ada showed great interest in Kawaki after he deceived Isshiki Ōtsutsuki, yet she also showed interest in Boruto Uzumaki seeing him as cute and dreamy although she deemed him too young for her. It was because of Amado who gave her the ability to be irresistibly attractive to everyone that she hates him, accusing him of taking away her ability to be genuinely loved, and she expressed her desire to kill him for it. Despite her desire to feel true love, in which both Kawaki and Boruto were potentially able to give her due to being partly Ōtsutsuki, she was, by her own claim, monogamous, and was fine if Code would sacrifice one of them to the Ten-Tails although she stated she wouldn't allow Code to use Kawaki for it. Ada also has a derisive attitude referring to Delta and Shikamaru as "dears" for not being able to attack her over her entrancing ability. While unconcerned with others, she openly voices her disdain of combat, viewing it as barbaric. Despite her cold personality, Ada showed that she cares about the feelings of others. Likewise, despite her normally indifferent nature, she is a true romantic at heart, eager to see how people's relationships turn out.

Witnessing the admiration that Kawaki showed for the Seventh Hokage, she asked Code to spare him. He denied it, but still she understood that as Naruto was most responsible for Isshiki's death, Code would get revenge for his master, and instead just asked to keep her involvement in aiding Code from Kawaki. When Ada witnessed Kawaki's willingness to put himself in danger to protect Naruto, Ada's admiration towards him increased, and when Kawaki demanded Code take him to Ada (while still unaware of her identity), the mere thought of Kawaki meeting her face-to-face was enough to make Ada's heartbeat to increase, as well making her blush. When Ada witnessed Boruto refusing to abandon Kawaki and hearing his words of brotherly affection towards him, Ada expressed her amazement towards him, and her attraction towards him was increased considerably. She readily admitted she's only helping Code as a means of getting Kawaki as a boyfriend, blushing as she said it. However, she remains bashful at the prospect of actually interacting with Kawaki, and him being aware of her, becoming flustered when Shikamaru told him about her. At the same time, however, Ada's attraction to Kawaki doesn't blind her to his growing immoral actions and demeanor, as Ada expressed (to Boruto and Sasuke) her distaste towards Kawaki's "cowardly" actions questioning Kawaki if he really needed to go that far.

Ada's relationship with most people as strictly pragmatic and professional, as she did not condone Code's reckless actions of going against his enemies while using Daemon as a shield without her consent. She also threatened him with death if he failed to uphold his part of the bargain, rationalising it as a business transaction. She considered Code, constrained by his limiters, as useless to her, and that if he remains below her expectations even after removing said limiters, she would not hesitate in disposing of him. Even more, she has no problem changing loyalties should it suit her interests. Nevertheless, Ada is able to recognise when she makes mistakes and acts unjustly towards others, as when she felt remorseful and guilty of her actions towards Boruto, apologising directly to him for turning him into Konoha's enemy, and even promising to not divulge his location to anyone as a way to make up for it. 

 Appearance 
left|
Ada has long blue hair with loops on the tips and pink streaks, and a beauty mark under the outer corner on both of her eyes. Her eyes are turquoise blue with uniquely having crescent moons wrapped around the dark irides that curve to the right. She wears a white long-sleeved turtleneck shirt with bishop sleeves and turquoise bracelets on her wrists and dark shorts with patterns of blue stars and a moon, and a planet with a ring around it, blue shooting star-shaped earrings, and black high-heeled sandals with two blue crescent moons and blue heels. Ada also wears matching rings on her ring finger and her pinky finger, and has pink nail polish on her fingernails and toe nails, and blue mascara. In the anime, Ada wears a small pair of blue bracelets.

Three years after Boruto left Konoha, Ada wears a yellow off-the-shoulder crop-top blouse with bishop sleeves and a necklace with a crescent moon and a small star pendant while retaining her other jewelry accessories, dark shorts, and her black high-heeled sandals with blue heels.

When using the Senrigan, the sclera of Ada's left eye turns black with three dots and has a crescent moon design. In the anime, Ada's Senrigan has an expanded design: the sclera of her left eye turns galaxy-patterned and her iris turns bright blue with a dark crescent moon design, two white orbit-like dots at both side and the other big planet-like pupil on the centre.Boruto episode 288

 Abilities 
As with every Kara member, Ada’s body had been modified with Scientific Ninja Tools and Shibai Ōtsutsuki‘s DNA by Amado.Boruto Two Blue Vortex chapter 13, page 21 While the true depths of her power is unknown, proclaiming herself that she can only use basic taijutsu,Boruto chapter 59, page 17 Amado has noted that her combat abilities greatly surpassed Jigen's.Boruto chapter 56, page 24 Likewise, she expressed confidence that she could kill the full-powered Code.Boruto chapter 68, page 15Boruto chapter 71 

 Shinjutsu 

From her infusion of Shibai’s cells,Boruto chapter 75 pages 6-7 Ada gained the power of clairvoyance by awakening the Senrigan in her left eye, allowing her to perceive everything that is currently happening anywhere in any dimension and all that has happened in the past, even events in different dimensions,Boruto chapter 57 page 28 up to the point she was born. However, her extrasensory perception doesn't extend to the spiritual or mental planes.Boruto chapter 68, page 13 The infusion also granted Ada the ability to freely levitate and fly about as she pleases.Boruto chapter 74 page 5-7

Due to Amado's unique modificationsBoruto chapter 57, page 32 all who see her face are instantly  by her − both men and women, with the exception of blood relatives and Ōtsutsuki − into becoming completely captivated with her. Her influence affects them on an instinctual, unconscious level, unable to harm her or resist her commands.Boruto chapter 69, page 6 Trying to resist her control for too long will lead to vertigo, fever, headaches, and inevitably lead to brain damage.Boruto chapter 69, page 33 However, non-offensive and indirect means of opposition, such as the Shadow Imitation Technique, are still possible. She has no control over this ability, and the effect lasts until she dies.Boruto chapter 69, page 31 Shikamaru has acknowledged that Ada could easily take over the entire world with this ability.Boruto chapter 73, page 18 This enchantment is in fact one application of the Shinjutsu, Omnipotence, bringing out her deepest desire: to find true love.Boruto chapter 75, page 36 She is unable to consciously control this ability due to not being an Ōtsutsuki.

 New Era: Part I 
 Code's Assault Arc 

left|
After the deaths of both Boro and Isshiki Ōtsutsuki, Code located Boro's hidden establishment managed by Bug. Bug stated he would lend Ada to Code if he was paid, where she was found in stasis. Upon awakening, she indifferently passed Code. Code initially subdued her, but found himself unable to strike her down despite her provocation. Ada merely stated she just wanted to freshen up before talking. After doing so, she and Code discussed her abilities. She also knew about Isshiki's demise and Code's goal of killing all those responsible. She assured him that only through Amado's cooperation, or at least the code word said in his voice and his modified iris scan, would they be able to remove the scientist's limiters on Code. It was also noted that with the Ōtsutsuki-modifications that both Boruto Uzumaki and Kawaki underwent from their respective Kāma, either would be a suitable offering to further the God Tree development, and one of them could potentially be the boyfriend she desired. Ultimately, Ada agreed to help Code use her visions to keep him ahead of the enemies.

Ada began revealing all the current events of Code's enemies through her Senrigan, and also revealed her limited skill set in actual combat. This made Code bring up the possibility that despite her interest in making Boruto or Kawaki her mate, there was still a chance they might try to kill her, since they were unaffected by her powers. Ada suggested they have Bug awaken her brother Daemon. Immediately, the boy showed his protectiveness to her, but Ada calmed him down by assuring him that Code was just a friend and not her type, to Daemon's surprise. Three guards of the hideout came to destroy them per their directives, who Daemon swiftly killed with his power to instantly reflect their attacks back on them. Later, as Daemon quickly began warming up to Code, he tried to get the boy to explain the full nature of his power. Before Daemon could answer, Ada forbade him, noting that it was too early to tell Code everything about them.

Later, as Daemon was sleeping soundly in Ada's lap, she used her Senrigan to detect that Kawaki was alone near the outside of Konohagakure. Code decided to take advantage of this opportunity. She continued to guide his movements until Code met with Kawaki. Her pleas for Code not to kill Kawaki woke Daemon up, but she told him to go back to sleep. Ada kept watching as Boruto joined them. She was pleased that Kawaki wanted to meet her, having deduced someone could convince Code not to seek vengeance on him, and was flustered by Boruto's dedication to protecting Kawaki. When Boruto managed to unleash more power from his Kāma, Code asked Ada how Boruto still held his conscience, she suggested it was due to Amado's medications and ordered Code to make sure he didn't lose before regaining his full power. Ada kept watching as Boruto collapsed in pain. As she continued to watch the events, Momoshiki took control of Boruto again. As he pressured Code in battle, Ada advised him to retreat. When the situation became further complicated with Naruto and Shikamaru's arrival, she was surprised to see Kawaki absorbing an Ultra-Big Ball Rasengan with a new Kāma to protect Naruto from Momoshiki.

Ada speculated that Amado had no intention of letting Kawaki decide if he wanted a Kāma back, and believes he applied it when restoring Kawaki's right arm, knowing he'd crave power. She continued watching the fight between Kawaki and Momoshiki until Boruto emerged again, and agreeing with Kawaki's opinion of Momoshiki, pushed Naruto out of the way and allowed Kawaki to strike through his chest. Code pondered about his options, and Ada warned him she wouldn't let him sacrifice Kawaki. Kawaki stopped Code from leaving and began overwhelming him. He warned Code that his ally was also a target of his as an enemy of Naruto, and prepared to kill him. Code pulled Daemon through the Claw Mark on his face, reflecting Kawaki's attack back at him, knocking him out, and sending Daemon back through. He confirmed that Kawaki was alive, Ada warning him she'd send Daemon to kill him otherwise. After his return, Ada pointed out Code had no Claw Marks in the middle of Konoha, where Amado, who Code wanted to remove his power limiters, was protected. He assured her he had already taken measures for it.

 Omnipotence Arc 

left|
Ada reviewed the events after Code's retreat, and revealed Boruto's resurrection through Momoshiki's Kāma, though she was unable to determine what they communicated about. She was displeased with Code using Daemon without her permission, and reminding him of the terms of their agreement, threatening to kill him after his power limiters were lifted if he became a hindrance. He assured her he had already taken measures. When he emerged through a Claw Mark on Shikamaru to get to Amado, Ada complained that the conversation he interrupted had just gotten interesting. After Code was pinned by a reprogrammed Delta, Code pulled her through into the lab, shocking Amado. Amado was terrified by her presence, and Delta attempted to kick her, only for her to became infatuated with Ada. She ordered Delta to release Code, which she complied. Shikamaru paralysed her with his Shadow Imitation Technique, surprising her with actual, though non-harmful opposition. She commended him for his will power, and ordered him to release his jutsu, freeing her and Code. Shikamaru asked her goals, and she admitted she was only helping Code in exchange for getting Kawaki as a boyfriend. Shikamaru offered to join Konoha, offering another avenue for getting close to Kawaki, surprising her.

As she began to genuinely consider the offer, her Senrigan detected Kawaki's quick approach in the vents. Deciding to decline Shikamaru's offer, she and Code retreated into the Claw Mark, taking Amado with them. She also ordered Delta to handle Shikamaru as his technique still held her at bay. Before leaving, she thanked Shikamaru for the kind offer. Once returning to the base, Amado begged for his life in exchange for removing the power limiters. Ada watched as he did. Code moved to kill Amado, but he appealed to Ada's interest in Kawaki, which stayed Code. He reasoned that Code was now a hindrance to her, as Shikamaru's offer was an opportunity for her to develop a relationship with Kawaki. Unwilling to spare Amado in addition of Kawaki, he attacked, but Ada had Daemon stop him, reminding Code that she'd dispose of him if he remained a hindrance to her. She was grateful for releasing her, which she has repaid by restoring his full power, although she had enough of their partnership. Daemon maintained the upper hand when fighting Code, who retreated, telling her he'd return after becoming a proper Ōtsutsuki to see if he truly loved her, or if he'd want her dead. She was fine with him leaving as long as he didn't get in her way, reiterating she'd kill him if warranted. Amado explained how Kawaki was his ace, detailing his recent developments with the restored Kāma and Isshiki's abilities. She realised he also gave Kawaki something else, which he confirmed, explaining he implanted a shutdown command, meaning he's the only one who can keep Kawaki in check. She agreed when Daemon pointed out he could deal with Kawaki, and wondered if Konoha would be pleased if they killed Amado. He considered her point, but assured her his goal, which required Kawaki's Kāma was different, and suggested they go to Konoha, who he also had to explain his goal at length, promising to mediate for their alliance. She listened to Amado's phone call with Shikamaru, and criticised him for referring to her and Daemon as game pieces, barely containing her hatred for him over giving her her alluring ability, and threatening to kill him if he didn't help her with Kawaki.

On the train to Konoha, Ada spied on Shikamaru's mission briefing to Team 7, getting more flustered as she learned he was already setting her up to live with Kawaki, and informing him of her interest in him. Informing them of her clairvoyance, Shikamaru also addressed Ada, certain she was either watching or would watch the meeting later on. She hugged Daemon, elated at the prospect of getting what she wanted, finding Shikamaru's actions interesting. Arriving in Konoha, she was welcomed by Shikamaru and Sai Yamanaka, her presence affecting everyone on the station. Having already learned about her living arrangements and refusing Sai's offer to accompany her, she flew off, carrying Daemon in a piggyback style. Upon landing on the house's balcony, she saw Team 7 watching her from afar. Inside, Konohamaru Sarutobi fainted upon meeting her, and Daemon knocked out both Boruto and Kawaki. When Boruto came to, she apologised for the harsh greeting, Daemon making it clear he's stronger than them. When Kawaki woke up, Ada blushed when he looked at her. Shikamaru contacted everyone through the comm system.

Amado explained the Shinjutsu nature and origins of Ada's and Daemon's abilities, as well as his own goal of resurrecting his daughter. Still suspicious of Amado, Shikamaru asked Ada to confirm his claims regarding his daughter with her Senrigan. Finding it an awful attitude, but approving it, she confirmed that Akebi Sanzu did exist and died 12 years prior. She noticed Boruto deep in thought, unaware that he was talking to Momoshiki's spirit. Shikamaru asked Ada what kind of person Akebi was, and she explained she was ordinary, completely unlike Delta. Feeling tired, she called it a day, agreeing to talk again the following day. The next day, she answered Boruto that he was too young for her when he asked why she picked Kawaki instead of him. She became flustered when Kawaki asked her about her partnership with Code. When the boys began arguing, she asked Sumire Kakei and Sarada Uchiha to join her, wishing to talk to girls. When Shikadai Nara also stopped by, she sent him home. She told the girls how Kawaki made her feel, and Sumire asked exactly what about Kawaki she liked, though she was unable to give a concrete answer beyond his immunity to her ability. She asked Sarada about Boruto, and Sarada feigned being affected by her ability, causing her to resent it also robbing her of genuine friendships. Sarada asked to be her friend, surprising her. After Kawaki's departure following a commotion between him and Boruto, Ada decided to go out, asking the girls to join her. She warned Boruto not to restrict her freedom, and Shikamaru instructed him to accompany her. While shopping for clothes, she notified Shikamaru of Code's Claw Grime, detailing why he targeted the things Kawaki loves in retaliation for perceiving Kawaki as having stolen from him.

Later, when Naruto and Hinata suddenly disappeared, Ada discovered that Kawaki had sealed them away within a rift. Ada surmised from Kawaki's earlier conversation with them that Kawaki planned to kill Boruto again. Ada managed to find Kawaki's whereabouts when he became too exhausted to remain shrunken and quickly flew after him, leaving Daemon and Sumire behind. She found Kawaki, reassuring him that she's on his side, and vowed to protect him. Ada listened to Kawaki's agonies over Boruto, which triggered between them as they floated, sending a flash through the entire planet. After the flash disappeared, they were both found by the search party. Kawaki prepared to attack them, but Ada stopped him as she noticed something wasn't right. One of the shinobi asked Kawaki about his eye wound, to his confusion. Ada then questioned about Naruto, now referring to him as Kawaki's "father". Kawaki and Ada were told that Boruto was responsible for something. As they both realised that Ada somehow altered reality to make Kawaki and Boruto swap lives, Kawaki told her to tell everyone that Boruto killed the Hokage.

She lied to Shikamaru at Kawaki's behest as he threatened her by grabbing her collar. After Daemon found Kawaki and Ada, she questioned Kawaki about going that far. Kawaki only answered that no one would get in his way on killing Boruto. She used her Senrigan to see Boruto being saved by Sasuke and told Kawaki she had to go to somewhere important as she left with Daemon. Ada found Boruto and Sasuke outside of Konoha. She apologised to Boruto for his predicament. She revealed to him that she only felt that she wanted to help Kawaki and her subconscious feelings caused it.

After Ada explained to Boruto the true nature of her enchantment and what she did to the world's perception, she was surprised to see how calm he was about this. As Boruto showed no ill-will towards her or Kawaki, rather now sympathising with the harsh, lonely life Kawaki had that Boruto now had a taste of, he resolved to settle things peacefully with his new brother, feeling that he was in part to blame for Kawaki taking this path. Ada found Boruto's attitude remarkably impressive, promising as a small means of atonement to never again spy on him through her Senrigan.

 New Era: Part II 
 Boruto's Return Arc 

Three years later, Sarada and Sumire went to meet Ada after a meeting with Shikamaru. Ada had a better grasp of what happened with Omnipotence, pointing out how Sarada and Sumire were the ones that seemed to have their memories altered from everyone else's perspective, and that it was impossible to undo it, finding it more practical to rewrite a new set of memories, which carried its own risks. She was puzzled by their immunity to the rewrite, and questioned if they were really captivated by her, choosing to believe them when they affirmed they merely hid their feelings. When Code attacked the village, successfully drawing Boruto out, Ada watched with her Senrigan.

Watching Boruto's new Rasengan: "Uzuhiko", she dismissed it as no different from a regular Rasengan, though Daemon explained to her that it relied on the planet's natural rotation, leaving Ada puzzled by the explanation.

Later, Ada witnessed how Code's Claw Grimes ultimately gave birth to sentient God Tree clones of their victims. They struck out on their own to figure out the nature of their identities and who to consume for creating Chakra Fruit. Bug's clone detected Ada's surveillance and told her that he picked her as his next target, much to Ada's distress. Ada reported the development, including one of the God Tree's targeting of Naruto, to Kawaki, and admonished Daemon when he teased Kawaki that his lie would be exposed if the God Trees came looking for Naruto. After knocking out Kawaki, who had detected Boruto's presence, Mitsuki wanted Ada to pinpoint Boruto's location.

When Kawaki woke up, he rushed Ada to pinpoint Boruto's location. She was flustered by Boruto's attitude in his talk with Mitsuki, and asked Delta to look after Kawaki. Mitsuki later approached her, and thanked her for introducing to the feeling of love, even a fake version of it, as it helped him understand his identity, something he struggled with as an artificial person. They discussed their feelings for Kawaki and how it affected them. Ada found it dramatic, and expressed interest in talking to Boruto. She was late in reporting Jura and Hidari's arrival to Shikamaru.

After the God Trees retreated, Boruto was captured and interrogated by Konoha. Ada reported the events through her Senrigan to Kawaki and Daemon. To their shock, Boruto refused to reveal the truth about Kawaki's ruse, actually trying to protect Kawaki's status in Konoha.

 Matsuri and Ryū Arc 

After Boruto's escape from Konoha's custody, Ada looked into Boruto's past three years to better understand his intentions. During which she learned how Koji Kashin's shinjutsu of Ten Directions let him see the various potential futures, helping to Boruto's extreme recent growth. She was intrigued how Koji explained the dangers of too many people knowing the future. When Sumire and Sarada asked about Boruto, Ada merely said that Boruto was keeping to himself. Sarada asked Ada to help find Boruto, but Sumire noted that Boruto had his reasons for keeping away and they should respect that. As Sarada stubbornly insisted they go help him, Sumire countered that Sarada is selfishly disregarding other people's feelings. Ada found this whole situation amusing. 

Later, Ada was approached by Shikamaru. She confirmed the emergence of the new Human God Tree, Ryū. She also revealed that one of the God Trees, Mamushi, could somehow perceive her watching of him through her Senrigan, prompting her to not want to spy on them in the present anymore. Changing subject, she asked why Shikamaru helped Boruto escape, but then chose not to further the question as it would endager Boruto.

When Shikamaru asked Ada if Boruto's unknown ally is Koji Kashin, the former Inner confirmed it to Shikamaru through his nin-toad. He also told Shikamaru to send Team 7 to the Land of Wind and join Suna-nin to deal with the soon arrival of Ryū and/or Matsuri. Koji also warned to keep Himawari in Konoha as Jura was after her, but seemed to value Konoha's literature and doesn't want to risk destroying it. To which, they must not engage him, or it will mean utter demise.

Following this, Koji left a toad with Ada and Shikamaru respectively to stay in contact. Days later when Team 7 when met up with the Suna-nin, Koji asked Ada to inform him about the mission's progress. While she was hesitant to do so, Koji assured her that Mamushi was not there, thereby agreeing to help. As things turn bad for the shinobi team, Ada informs Koji and Boruto about it, leaving Boruto eager to go help.

As Ada revealed that Ryū was defeated by Sarada's sudden awakening of her Mangekyō Sharingan, Boruto grew restless in knowing that Koji allowed this event to happen to ensure Sarada's new power being obtained. When learning that Konohamaru would inevitably die against Matsuri, Boruto refused to allow it and teleported in time to save him.

Ada watched as Konohamaru secured Matsuri's Thornsoul Bulb as Jura arrived to attack Boruto. Ada was impressed as Boruto was able to hold his own admirably against the Ten-Tails incarnation. Despite this, she doubted Boruto would win, which Koji confirmed. She said that Boruto should teleport away, but Koji explained that Boruto struggles with long-distance teleporting, making it harder when pressured by enemies. Likewise, Boruto is clearly distracting Jura so the others can secure Ryū and Matsuri's Thornsoul Bulbs, prophesizing that Boruto will die. 

As Ada watched Boruto being slowly killed, Ada couldn't bring herself to watch it anymore. Suddenly, Koji got another vision from Ten Directions, revealing a future where Kawaki aids Boruto. To which, Kawaki indeed arrived to help Boruto against Jura, now maxed out with offensive power thanks to Amado's adjustments. Ultimately, Kawaki's newfound power proved not enough to defeat Jura, prompting Boruto to teleport away with Kawaki. As Ada breathed in relief, Koji noted that this turn of events shifted how the future would turn out. To which, Mamushi, was on the move for Ada. This left her nervous.

Later, Ada watched from afar in shock as Sumire and Sarada opened up to each other about how they both have gained genuine feelings for Boruto, sparking a friendly rivalry for his affection. Ada was annoyed that her only "genuine" friends weren't including her in this conversation. She then asked the Sensory Unit to put her in connection with them.

 Mamushi Arc 

Ada met with Sarada and Sumire, asking how they intend to approach Boruto about their feelings for him. After the two stated they can't tell him such with all the struggles he is currently enduring, Ada broached her previous question about their affection towards her. Noticing how they are focused more on their feelings towards someone besides her, especially when she is in their current presence, she doubted their genuine attraction to her. As Sarada activated her Mangekyō Sharingan, Daemon acted swiftly, grabbing Sarada and Sumire by the neck.

Ultimately, he let them go, proclaiming he only wanted to prove how easy it would be for him to kill them. Ada returned focus to the subject at hand. She had concluded that Sarada and Sumire didn't break free from her allure, nor were they ever affected by it. She also concluded that the reason behind this was because Ada had subconsciously made it so, wanting have friends who liked her on their own. To which, she truly believed that over the past years, Sarada and Sumire had become her genuine friends with no real desire to hurt her. Sarada and Sumire were moved by this, hugging Ada to affirm their genuine friendship. Ultimately, it made Ada very clingy to the girls, wanting to have more girl talk with them.

Days later, Shikamaru contacted Ada, along with several other Konoha-nin who accepted Boruto as an ally through Inojin's Mind Body Transmission Formation for a secret joint mission to deal with Mamushi, who had come to the village for Ada. The Eighth Hokage explained the situation and the nature of the Human God Tree's Division ability. As Ada feared for her safety, Daemon promised to protect his big sister. Sarada was also instructed to keep watch on Ada giving the unclear numbers Mamushi would send.

When Inojin's technique briefly disconnected, Daemon suggested that Ada use her Senringan to learn what is going on, but she refused. Ada explained that not only can Mamushi detect when she is spying on him, even through the Senringan, but also determine where she currently is. Ultimately, as the Mamushis began to multiply into the hundreds, Shikamaru decided to go with his backup plan: let Mamushi find Ada. While Ada was horrified to hear she was going to be bait, it was explained that with the Mamushis' reduced intelligence, they would all join up to get Ada. This will also allow the Konoha team to work with Daemon to finish off all the Divisions.

As Boruto offered to bring the Mamushis to Ada, to which they followed him, Ada, with Daemon, waited outside. Upon seeing their target, Ada flew away with Daemon on her back, luring the Mamushis away and to gather together. Once close enough, Daemon took to the ground and began his counterattack, reflecting their attacks and striking them down with his own assault. As the divisions continued their relentless effort to consume Ada, the Konoha team arrived to battle back against the threat. While soon getting the hundreds of Mamushis down to under fifty, their plan to wipe the remainder of them out in one assault failed when Sarada fainted from overusing her Mangekyō Sharingan. The remaining Mamushis, now filled with survival instinct, multiplied into the thousands.

As the Mamushis continued their relentless pursuit of Ada, she desperately tried to fly away as Boruto and Daemon protected her. Suddenly, Inojin was summoned to the field. With it deduced that the Divisions shared a hive mind, Inojin transferred his mind into a Mamushi, subsequently taking control of all the Mamushis. He directed killing intent on Daemon so he would reflect it back on the Mamushis and destroy their eyes, the only means for Mamushi to continue dividing. Following this, all the Mamushis collapsed and disintegrated. 

 Trivia 
 Ada Lovelace was an English mathematician and writer, chiefly known for her work on Charles Babbage's proposed mechanical general-purpose computer, the Analytical Engine. She was the first to recognise that the machine had applications beyond pure calculation, and to have published the first algorithm intended to be carried out by such a machine. As a result, she was often regarded as the first computer programmer.
 Ada is the only known recipient of Shibai's DNA to awaken more than one Shinjutsu.