Title: Amagi
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Amagi
-----------------------

is a chūnin of Sunagakure, directly under Kankurō's supervision since he has turned 15.

 Personality 
Amagi is quite impatient when in battle, believing that there is no worth in waiting for an opening to strike as it just gives the target time to gather their strength and attack. He believes in avenging his allies, so much so that he considered a death penalty to be given to Kajūra, due to him killing his comrades, but was reasoned with by Kankurō. Amagi is a strong believer in the teachings of the Sage of the Six Paths, specifically ninshū.

 Appearance 
Amagi is a young boy with androgynous features, like his cherubic chestnut brown hair, that has him mistaken for a girl.

 Abilities 
Amagi had survived countless battles after his first fight. When in combat, he deploys small and sharp daggers and kozura (knives, attached to sword scabbards), with which he is very artistic. Despite that, Kankurō noted that the weapons are quite easy to deflect. Amagi can also use chakra threads in unison with kozura to control their direction, making them sort of like homing devices.

 Blank Period 
 Gaara Hiden: A Sandstorm Mirage 
While on the mission to capture Kajūra, a missing-nin of Ishigakure, Amagi witnessed the terrorist killing his comrades and decided to take action. The boy launched several daggers and kozura at the opponent's Iron Sand form, but was electrocuted and left in a near-death state. Despite that, he managed to successfully recover in a short amount of time. After Kankurō defeated and captured the criminal, Amagi proposed killing him to Kankurō, as a way to avenge their fallen comrades, but the jōnin reasoned with him that killing Kajūra won't bring their teammates back from the dead. Reminded that shinobi are those who endure, the boy, with the rest of the Counter-Terrorism Division, decided to head back to the village.

After learning about Kankurō's decision to take over for Gaara as the Kazekage, Amagi questioned his superior, whether this was what he truly wanted, confused about his actions as a shinobi. When the jōnin faced Tōjūrō and learned of his betrayal, Amagi appeared behind the senior and restrained him.

pt-br:Amagi