Title: Anaguma
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Anaguma
-----------------------

is a shinobi of Kirigakure who also works as a bounty hunter.

 Personality 
Anaguma is a serious and composed man, not one to panic even when held captive and likewise cautious by nature. He is dedicated to his job as a bounty hunter, respectful to others, and willing to cooperate with people he just met to save others.

 Appearance 
Anaguma is an older man of light complexion with pronounced tear-troughs under his eyes and a scar running down under his right eye. He had white hair and a well-kept beard. He wore standard Kirigakure attire and an aviator-like cape with his Kiri forehead protector on it. 

 Abilities 

As a bounty hunter, Anaguma is implied to be highly skilled, especially as he captured a highly wanted and dangerous man in Rokuro. He is able to use Water Release to create water threads, with which he could steady unstable structures.

 New Era 
 Labyrinth Game Arc 

After capturing Rokuro, Anaguma and his partner took their bounty on the Thunder Train. He later awoke to find himself in a sealed room. When Boruto Uzumaki woke up, he informed him of what they knew, and who had already tried to escape with no results. When Yatsume asked about his charge, he warned her about how dangerous Rokuro was. Then, Ōga accessed the room, claiming that they miraculously survived exposure to deadly gases unleashed on the train and were brought to this facility for quarantining. When asking to be let go, Ōga revealed he intended to test their ability to avoid death. Anaguma's partner decided to play along and drew one of the cards Ōga offered, drawing a death card and being promptly executed. The first of his experiments sent them to a room with a collapsing platform on a chasm, requiring them to reach a safe ledge. Other shinobi quickly jumped to safety, while Anaguma helped Boruto trying to save the civilian captives. After Batta's Wind Release: Flying Locust Wind further destabilised the structure, Anaguma held it together for as long as he coud with his water threads. When they gave out, he was thrown off the platform, only Rokuro holding him with his legs. When Rokuro asked Kakesu to release his restraints so he could use his technique and save her, Anaguma warned her against it. She ignored his warnings, Rokuro dropping him and letting Kakesu fall right after.

However, the real Anaguma remained alive and in suspended animation, alongside those killed in Ōga's genjutsu. When Boruto refused to give up on Yatsume, who was the real Ōga, she woke up from the genjutsu on her own and freed everyone. Anaguma and his partner retained custody of Rokuro.

 Trivia 
 Written as 穴熊, "anaguma" means "badger".