Title: Aniki (missing-nin)
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Aniki_(missing-nin)
-----------------------

is a missing-nin.

 Background 
At some point in time, Aniki graduated from the academy and became a genin. But due to his nature, he would often abandon missions he didn't like, and ultimately became a missing-nin. Sometime later, he took Oppo and Teru in as his underlings.

 Personality 
Aniki is a rather rude and opinionated person, even towards those who help him, going as far as beating them should they get under his skin. Aniki has a lazy and feisty personality, which caused him to not complete assigned missions during his time as a shinobi. He also likes to drink hard alcohol.

Furthermore, Aniki is quite short-tempered and cruel, threatening to harm Osaka if she didn't behave. Despite also getting hold of the Seventh Hokage's daughter, Aniki showed no fear in doing so, even going as far as to decide to sell Himawari in the black market for any of Naruto's enemies, merely in order to receive a large profit, and wasn't concerned of possibly having Naruto hunt him down for doing so.

 Appearance 
Aniki is a rather tall guy with short grey hair that is shaved at the temples in a zigzag pattern, making his hair look like flames. He has black eyes with deep streaks underneath and a red tattoo near his left eye. He is also missing his eyebrows and has round earrings inserted into his ears. Aniki is dressed in blue pants and black boots, as well as a white t-shirt, over which is thrown an orange jacket with fur on the collar. Around his neck hangs a golden chain with a pendant in the form of four cubes.

 Abilities 
As a genin, Aniki has mastered the basic skills of a shinobi. He is fairly skilled at taijutsu, fighting on par with Himawari Uzumaki, a Byakugan wielder. He is physically strong, being able to easily survive a blow from a Gentle Fist, and also has some leadership skills, being an authority for other people who follow his orders.

 Ninjutsu 

Aniki is proficient with the Fire Release, being able to cast extensive techniques such as Fire Release: Fire Dragon Wall by surrounding the opponent with a ring of fire. He also demonstrated the ability to bombard the enemy with small fire projectiles, and attack with a massive stream of flame. However, the strength of his fire proved rather weak as it unfazed Kawaki.

 New Era 
 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

Aniki received an order from an unspecified individual to kidnap Osuka Kamakura for ransom. Oppo and Teru also kidnapped Himawari Uzumaki along her, and when Aniki checked on them, he beat them for deviating from the plan, before deciding to sell Himawari to Naruto's enemies, and left. When he returned, he chastised Teru and Oppo for sharing so much information about him, blowing up a crate with Fire Release, and forbidding them for revealing anything further.

At night, Oppo and Teru fell asleep, while Aniki kept drinking. Himawari and Osuka freed themselves, and Himawari attacked him. He resisted her attacks and began choking her. Kawaki arrived in time to save her, and resisted Aniki's Fire Release, defeating him. As he was arrested, he cursed at the superior who put him up to it.

 Trivia 
 His comrades call him "aniki", which means "elder brother", and this form is usually used by Japanese gangsters to address their superior.