Title: Ankorodō Shop Owner
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Ankorodō_Shop_Owner
-----------------------

This woman is the owner of the Ankorodō shop in Konohagakure.

 Background 
She was a kunoichi many years in the past. During a previous eating contest, she also offered unlimited free sweet sake to the winner, a prize won by Chōji Akimichi. She nearly went bankrupt providing free sake to Chōji, making the shop owner determined to never again risk her restaurant's welfare with an "unlimited" offer.

 Personality 
She is very worried about her business and does not want to lose it, which is why she hates Chōji Akimichi, who once almost ruined her. She is a cunning woman and is ready to do anything to prevent Chōji from winning the glutton contest by going to various tricks. She is also a little forgetful, as she could not remember how to undo the technique she had created. After the fraud in the competition was revealed, the old woman was very shocked, but nevertheless repented of her deeds and, apparently, gave Chōji and his daughter a well-deserved prize. Sai noted that this punishment is much worse than being in prison.Naruto Shinden: Parent and Child Day novel

 Appearance 
She is a short, elderly woman with grey hair and sunken eyes, which are nonetheless visible in moments of extreme arousal. She has only three teeth in her mouth, and there are many birthmarks on her wrinkled face. She wears a brown striped robe over which is tied a light-coloured apron depicting a leaf and three small circles on the upper left side. In addition, she wears simple sandals, and her hair is tied in a bun and covered with a blanket.

 Abilities 
left|
As a former kunoichi, the she has some ninjutsu skills and is able to use the Earth Release, creating huge dumplings from the mochi, which constantly increase in size and even strong experienced shinobi like Rock Lee could not get rid of them. However, the mochi was easily destroyed by the increased size of Chōji, who simply ate it all. Due not using this technique for thirty years, she has forgotten how to undo the jutsu.

In addition, she has some tactical skills as she was able to devise a plan to defeat Chōji.

 New Era 
 Naruto Shinden: Parent and Child Day 

She took part in a conspiracy of food store owners ahead of a glutton competition to prevent Chōji Akimichi from winning. At this time, the candles went out and the old woman panics, but Ayame turned on the light and asked her what she was going to do, since it was her shop that presented the prize to the winner of the competition.

Later, she supplied dishes to the contestants and colluded with Kui and Daore Dōtonbori, as she feared bankruptcy. In the finale, Dotonbori's father and son were brought out shallow bowls, while Chōji and Chōchō Akimichi were given deep bowls, which made them lag behind in eating speed. At this time, Boruto Uzumaki, hungry, searched for food and accidentally discovered a deception. The old woman began to get angry, seeing how the support of her daughter gave Chōji the strength to eat more and more. She used her secret technique and fills the entire championship arena with sticky mochi. Rock Lee and Metal Lee tried to destroy the mochi, but their taijutsu failed. Chōji, growing in size, ate all the mochi, while Boruto exposed the old woman and she repented. The Akimichi family won the competition. Consequently, she was forced to give Chōji Akimichi a certificate for endless sweet bean jam, and Sai noted that this is much worse than being in prison.