Title: Anko Mitarashi
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Anko_Mitarashi
-----------------------

is a tokubetsu jōnin who teaches at Konohagakure's Academy.

 Background 

When she was a genin, Anko was on a team led by Orochimaru.Naruto chapter 122, page 16 Their team took part in the Chūnin Exams; during the second round, they confronted a team consisting of Hayate Gekkō, Ibiki Morino, and Tokara.Naruto chapter 599, pages 2-4 Orochimaru took a strong interest in Anko, teaching her several of his signature jutsu and, in the anime, what he'd learned about immortality.Naruto: Shippūden episode 114 Orochimaru eventually used Anko as a test subject for his Cursed Seal of Heaven. Of the ten subjects, Anko was the only survivor.Naruto chapter 50, page 15

In the anime, Anko refused to continue following Orochimaru after she received her Cursed Seal of Heaven. Unwilling to kill her because she was so valuable as a research subject, Orochimaru erased Anko's memory, making her wonder if she'd been abandoned for lacking the ideal drive to fuel the cursed seal, rather than her choosing to reject him in the face of his evil experiments.Naruto episode 173 An amnesiac Anko was found in the Land of the Sea by Konoha's Anbu and brought back in hopes of giving the village information regarding Orochimaru, but because of her tampered memory, nothing could be recovered. Distraught at being abandoned and having no memory, Anko was comforted by the Third Hokage. Ever since then, Anko held a grudge against Orochimaru for what he did and believed it was her responsibility, as his former student, to stop his criminal actions.

 Personality 

Anko is laid-back, tomboyish, playful, stubborn, brave, rough, feisty, and sometimes hyperactive, to the point that Sakura Haruno described her as being much like Naruto Uzumaki in many ways.Naruto chapter 44, page 15 Despite portraying several childish and somewhat juvenile behavior, Anko has nonetheless been shown to be very well-prepared and studious. However, she is also shown to have a bloodthirsty side of herself, as seen when she slashed Naruto's face with a kunai and licked his blood (in the anime, she merely used her finger to wipe it off).Naruto chapter 45, pages 3-4 Anko has also shown a somewhat sadistic side and is apparently not the most sympathetic of people, which is no surprise being a former student of Orochimaru. However, she is not above caring for her comrades or people in pain, as shown by her encouraging words to Isaribi. Anko is also a very strict and impatient person, wasting no time in announcing bad news and dislikes sugarcoating situations when there is no need for it. She regularly makes sure she has at least a basic understanding of the landscape so her next mission can be accomplished. Anko is also highly confident in her own abilities, often choosing to face a powerful opponent alone or continue a dangerous mission alone.

Anko's personality quirks are often commented by others, who consider her being crazy and somewhat deranged, such as Naruto and Ino Yamanaka. While completely aware of this, Anko doesn't when enjoy when others point it out, scaring Naruto and leaving him creeped out when she overheard his negative comments about her, threatning him with a kunai, all the while licking her lips.Naruto episode 169 Anko once held an extremely powerful admiration towards her teacher Orochimaru, viewing him as a role model and striving to become just like him. However, after Orochimaru branded her with a Cursed Seal of Heaven, Anko's admiration for her former teacher transformed into a deep-seated hatred.Naruto episode 173 Her experience with Orochimaru, and the betrayal she suffered by his hand, left Anko with post-traumatic stress disorder, having nightmares about the effects of the Cursed Seal of Heaven, which often left her waking up drenched in sweat. As a result, Anko became determined to be the one to put an end to Orochimaru's evil ways, being even willing to sacrifice herself in order to accomplish it.

One of Anko's defining characteristics is her strong and unyielding sweet tooth, spending almost all of her free time eating food, particularly dango, which is her favourite meal. Accordingly, she becomes extremely angry and hostile towards anyone who either threatens to interrupt her snack time, or dares to steal her food, seen when she almost killed Naruto by throwing several skewers at him after he ate her dango right under her nose.Naruto: Shippūden episode 170 Her unrelenting love for sweets and unwillingness to moderate her eating habits eventually caused Anko to gain a significant amount of weight, and around fifteen years after the Fourth Shinobi World War, her previously slender frame had since become an overweight one, although she shows zero concern about it and takes no offense when others comment on her newfound weight.

 Appearance 

Anko is an average-sized, young woman who was of slender frame. She has light brown, pupil-less eyes. Her hair - black with a blue tint in the mangaNaruto chapter 604, pages 3-4 and violet in the anime - is styled in a short, spiky, fanned-out ponytail. She usually wears a custom-made outfit that is crafted of thin metal mesh to fit the lines of her body,Naruto Anime Profiles, Vol. 1, page 217 (English edition) that covers her from neck to thigh. Over this, she typically wears a tan overcoat with a purple in-seam and a pocket on each side, a dark orange mini-skirt, a dark blue belt, and pale grey shin guards. In addition to the typical forehead protector, she also wears a small pendant that looks like a snake fang.

As a child, Anko wore a sleeveless chainmail mesh shirt, chainmail armbands that reached to her elbows, dark shorts, and knee-length boots. Though during her time as a preteen when following Orochimaru in the anime, she instead wears a brown-red t-shirt with bracelets, white shorts and chainmail leggings. Years after the Fourth Shinobi World War, she puts on weight and starts wearing red lipstick. Her chainmail bodysuit is replaced with an orange blouse with a white coat cape over it.

 Abilities 
Being a tokubetsu jōnin, Anko is indeed a highly skilled kunoichi. Even as a child, her talent gained the attention of Orochimaru who would take her up as his disciple. Her prowess ultimately earned her recognition as a legendary kunoichi a decade after the Fourth Shinobi World War.Boruto: Naruto the Movie novel

 Ninjutsu 

While under Orochimaru's wing, she was taught many of his techniques, such as the Hidden Shadow Snake Hands and its stronger variant. Her skill with these techniques, in particular, allowed her to easily outmaneuver the collaborative efforts of the Ino-Shika-Chō trio during their Genin Exams.Boruto episode 36 She could also perform Orochimaru's murder-suicide technique as well.Naruto chapter 50, page 10 She was also the first surviving recipient of his Cursed Seal of Heaven, which appears as three tomoe at the back of her neck. Though it flares up from time to time in its attempt to encourage her to use it, she refrains from doing so. It is eventually removed from her body following the Fourth Shinobi World War.Naruto chapter 593, page 9 Anko has incredible aim, able to make a perfect Konoha symbol out of dango sticks without even looking.Naruto chapter 49, page 3 She has excellent tracking skills, evidenced by her being placed in charge of a team tasked with finding Kabuto Yakushi. In the anime, she has been stated to have built up an immunity to poisons with Orochimaru's help.Naruto: Shippūden episode 261 She also has proficiency Fire and Yin Release, able to unleash power flame streams and confuse her targets with the respective elements.Naruto episode 169

 Stats 

 Part I 
 Chūnin Exams 

Anko proctors the second stage of the Chūnin Exams held in Konoha. She breaks into the room where the first stage was held and showily introduces herself to the assembled genin. When she realises that she entered too soon, she tries deflecting blame by instead reprimanding the first stage's proctor, Ibiki Morino, for how many genin were allowed to pass to the second stage. She leads the genin to the Forest of Death where she explains the rules for the second stage and the dangers they'll face in the forest. She attacks Naruto Uzumaki with a kunai when he suggests she's exaggerating, only for the kunai to be returned to her by Shiore, a Kusa-nin.

Shortly after the second stage gets underway, Anko is alerted to the discovery of three dead Kusa-nin, among them Shiore. From examining the bodies it becomes clear to her that they've been dead for some time and, because they're all missing their faces, she concludes that Orochimaru has infiltrated the Chūnin Exams. She orders that the Third Hokage be informed of what's happened, that two teams of Anbu be deployed, and then goes into the forest to find Orochimaru on her own. She locates him shortly after nightfall and tries to use the Twin Snakes Mutual Death Technique on him, only to discover at the last moment that she's been attacking a shadow clone. He reactivates her dormant Cursed Seal of Heaven, immobilising her with the pain, and warns her not to cancel the Chūnin Exams before departing.

Despite the pain, Anko is eventually able to reach the centre of the Forest of Death. The Third Hokage treats her cursed seal and, after hearing what's happened, speculates that Orochimaru is after Sasuke Uchiha, who Orochimaru has branded with another Cursed Seal of Heaven.Naruto chapter 64, pages 18-19 Anko tries to argue that Sasuke be removed from the exams and placed under guard, but the Third insists the exams continue per Orochimaru's instructions. During the preliminary matches, Anko stays by the Third's side, informing him of the participants' particulars; she is amazed by Sasuke's control of his cursed seal during his match.

A month after the preliminaries, as the final round matches near and it becomes increasingly clear that Orochimaru means ill to Konoha, Anko tries to apologise to the Third for her failure to kill him. She also rues over the death of the Fourth Hokage, believing he could have stopped Orochimaru, but the Third tells her to neither blame herself nor to dwell on the dead..Naruto chapter 94, pages 6-8 In the anime, around the same time, Naruto approaches her while she's at her favourite Dango Shop to ask her about the "Fourth Hokage's legacy". When he eats one of her dango without permission, she attacks him and chases him away.Naruto: Shippūden episode 170

 Konoha Crush 

During the invasion, Anko threw herself into the fray to stop the sins of her once master. Afterwards, she devoted herself to training the next generation of the village.Naruto: One Decade, One Hundred Ninja, page 66 In the anime, Anko assists in the evacuation of Konoha's civilians to the Hokage Rock during the invasion of Konoha. She later attends the Third Hokage's funeral.

 Sasuke Recovery Mission 

In the anime, Anko attends the Fifth Hokage's inauguration.Naruto episode 100 Shortly after that, she and the other Chūnin Exam proctors are present for Shikamaru Nara's promotion to chūnin.Naruto episode 107

 Kurosuki Family Removal Mission 

In the anime, Anko meets with the Fifth Hokage after completing an escort mission in the Land of Swamps. She absent-mindedly eats the Hokage's last dango, frightening Shizune.Naruto episode 152

 Kaima Capture Mission 

In the anime, Konoha is hired to protect a shipping convoy in the Land of the Sea. Because this is the same country where Anko received her cursed seal from Orochimaru, the Hokage puts Anko in charge of the mission, hoping it will help her regain her memories of what happened there. After the Kaima Capture Team completes their mission, Anko locates the lab where Orochimaru carried out his experiments and remembers that he didn't abandon her but that rather she left him. She is happy by the truth.

 Part II 
Akatsuki Suppression Mission

In the anime, Anko attended Asuma Sarutobi's funeral.Naruto: Shippūden episode 82

 Itachi Pursuit Mission 

In the anime, Anko was on a mission with Mozuku and Iwashi when she senses something behind her. She attacked it with a kunai and discovered a white snake, giving her an ominous feeling about Orochimaru. 

 Pain's Assault 

Before Pain attacked Konoha, Anko led the Infiltration and Reconnaissance Party, along with Sai and Yamato, to track down and locate Kabuto Yakushi, Orochimaru's former subordinate. Anko warned the rest of them not to let Kabuto detect them. However, shortly after discovering Kabuto's location, Yamato noticed that Naruto had achieved his six-tailed Nine-Tails transformation and apologizing for deserting the mission while claiming an emergency, rushed back to the village while leaving a confused Anko and Sai behind.

 Fourth Shinobi World War: Countdown 

Although Yamato is gone and Sai also returns to Konoha, a restaffed Reconnaissance Party continues to track Kabuto. They eventually come across three dead Takigakure ninja. From the bite marks on their necks, it becomes clear to Anko that Kabuto has gained control of Orochimaru's powers, but she wonders why he's leaving behind bodies for them to find. Wary of a trap, they follow the trail of bodies to the Mountains' Graveyard. Tokuma Hyūga‎ scouts the area with his Byakugan and reports that Kabuto is in the company of Tobi. Believing they have found the Akatsuki base, Anko immediately sends word of their discovery to Konoha, only briefly wondering why Kabuto would lead them there.

 Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation 

Anko and her team continue to monitor the Mountains' Graveyard. When Muta Aburame detects the mobilisation of the White Zetsu Army, Anko instructs her team to inform the Allied Shinobi Forces while she goes after Kabuto. She tries to sneak up on Kabuto and attack him, but is quickly defeated. Tobi orders that Kabuto kill her, but he instead keeps her comatose, siphoning the chakra from her cursed seal to strengthen his Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation.

 Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax 

After Kabuto is defeated by Itachi Uchiha and Sasuke Uchiha, Anko's unconscious body is found by Jūgo. Wishing to speak with Orochimaru, Sasuke uses the Evil Releasing Method to revive Orochimaru from her cursed seal, causing her cursed seal to disappear in the process. Anko remains unconscious throughout the ordeal and they leave her behind.

 Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes 

In the anime, in the aftermath of the Fourth Shinobi World War, Anko attends the mass funeral held in Konoha.

 New Era 
 Academy Entrance Arc 

Ten years after the Fourth Shinobi World War ends, Anko becomes an instructor at Konoha's Academy. During the entrance ceremony, Anko and the other instructors were left mortified when Boruto Uzumaki crashes a train into the Hokage Rock. Two weeks later, when the students skipped Shino Aburame's class to watch a fight between Iwabee Yuino and Boruto, Anko gave the class a severe scolding afterwards. Later, Anko checked on Shino when he began pouting about how little respect his students seemed to have for him.

Later, when classes ended early because of the Five Kage Summit, she invites Chōchō Akimichi to the dango shop to eat some anmitsu.

 School Trip Arc 

In the anime, to improve relationships with other villages and symbolically show the warring era was over, the Seventh Hokage set up an official class trip for the Academy to go to Kirigakure. Anko joined Shino to watch over the class. Upon arriving, they were met with Kagura Karatachi, who was appointed by the Mizukage to act as the class' tour guide. The class was later taken to meet Chōjūrō, the Sixth Mizukage.

Later, Anko and Shino met with the Fifth Mizukage Mei Terumi to discuss the growing conflict between the Land of Water and neighbouring countries. As the Land of Water wishes to expand military power into the bordering seas, Mei feared that this could escalate into war again. Despite this, Mei assured them that Kirigakure was strongly against all this and that she with the Sixth Mizukage would work to prevent it all.

 Graduation Exams Arc 

During the practical and final test of the graduation exam, the class was brought to the training field. There, the entire class was set up to face Anko, Shino, and Konohamaru for 24 hours. While the teachers would still evaluate the students' respective improvements, the students' true test was against Kakashi Hatake. The Sixth Hokage quickly explained that he would only pass the first student who is able to take the single bell attached to his hip. As the test began, Anko quickly caught many students in a genjutsu. She was then attacked by the Ino–Shika–Chō trio. While questioning their willingness to work together as there could only be one winner in the test, they insisted that it was more practical to work team up for now. Anko smirked at their choice. As she began overwhelming the trio with her snake techniques, they were soon aided by more of their friends to face Anko. Ultimately, Anko defeated and subdued the group of students.

Later that night, following a plan from Boruto, the remaining students able to split up the proctors. Anko was then attacked by Lee and Wasabi Izuno. While taking their attacks well, Anko then turned her attention to Namida Suzumeno, whose frightened nature was used to the advantage of Anko's intimidating battle nature, unleashing a scream powerful enough to emit a sonic blast that incapacitated Anko. By the end of the test, despite no one getting the bell from Kakashi, the Sixth Hokage chose to pass everyone as they succeeded in the true goal of the test; team-work and loyalty.

 Mujina Bandits Arc 

In the anime, months later, Anko helped in a one-day trail session for children to experience the Ninja Academy. She acted as a team captain for Himawari Uzumaki, Yuina Itomaki, and Ehō Norimaki, and tasked them with the retrieval of a missing pet cat. She watched in amusement at how the team struggled to get along, but ultimately learned to cooperate and complete their mission.

 Ao Arc 

In the anime, Anko attended the memorial service for the fallen people of the Fourth Shinobi World War.

 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

In the anime, Anko attended the entrance ceremony for a new class of students in the Academy. When a new teacher, Hana Kaka, struggled with the job, she and Shino reassured her that every new teacher does so at first. When she felt dejected over the enthusiasm her students showed when Team 7 taught a class, Anko was confident about Hana's qualifications. After she successfully mended a rift between her students, Anko was happy for her. She asked Team 7 if they wanted to teach another class, but Boruto declined the offer.

When the Academy held a festival, they an explosion went off and they received a terrorist threat of more. The Academy staff discussed how to deal with the situation, and they accepted the help of former students in attendance to help deal with the situation, as no one could leave or contact the outside.

Following the attack, Hana was injured and hospitalised. As Shino took over Hana's class as she recuperated, Anko suggested to Shino they not tell Hana about Kae having been the target of the attack, not wanting to put any grief on the new teacher. After the threat on Kae was seemingly thwarted, Anko and Shino decided to tell Hana about it upon her return.

Anko later listened to Hana in the hospital as she explained how her other personality had been the assassin after Kae, and her decision to live with the other personality, teach her, and befriend her. Anko attended the class' Sannin play as a send off for Kae, who had to return to her country.

 In Other Media 
 Video Games 

In Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm, Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm Generations, and Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm Revolution, Anko is a support-only character. In the Ultimate Ninja games, Anko has the ability to go into Curse Seal Mode instead of Ultimate Mode when facing Orochimaru. She also makes an appearance as non-playable cameo in the story Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 4, when her Cursed Seal is used by Sasuke to revive Orochimaru.

 Trivia 
  is derived from the sweet red bean paste used in popular Japanese sweets such as dango, while her family name comes from mitarashi syrup that usually goes with dango.
 In an interview included with Naruto Anime Profiles, Vol. 1, Kishimoto states that Anko is his favourite female character, due to her "relationship with Orochimaru".
 Anko's highest ranking in the Naruto Character Popularity Polls was eleventh place in the first poll.
 Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Anko show that she was 141 cm at her Chūnin Exams when she was first part of Orochimaru's genin team and 143 cm a year or so later.
 According to the databook(s):
 She likes conducting tea ceremonies as a hobby.
 Anko wishes to fight Orochimaru.
 Anko's favourite foods are sweet bean soup and dango. Her least favourite type of food is spicy-tasting food.
 Her favourite phrase is .
 Anko has completed 647 official missions in total: 72 D-rank, 86 C-rank, 398 B-rank, 89 A-rank, 2 S-rank.
 In the anime, a dream version of Anko was part of Root and was one of its best members, alongside Yūgao Uzuki, Hayate Gekkō, and Sai. She wore a mixture of her own clothing and the standard-issue Anbu uniform, including a black hooded cloak and an asymmetrical black and white mask.Naruto: Shippūden episode 444
 According to her profile in Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online and Rin no Sho, Anko is the most dangerous woman in Konohagakure.

 Quotes 
 (To Naruto) "Tough guys like you usually leave their blood all over this forest."Naruto chapter 45, pages 2-3
 (To Orochimaru, before engaging him) "This is no time to reminisce, you’re an S-class criminal, top of the most wanted list. You've got to be taken down, and it's only fitting that I'm the one to do it. 'Cause after all, you're the one that taught me everything, right, Sensei?"Naruto chapter 50, page 7