Title: Arashi
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Arashi
-----------------------

was a shinobi from Otogakure and the leader of the Fūma Clan's shinobi who aligned with Orochimaru in the hope to rebuild their clan. 

 Background 
After the Fūma clan had suffered heavily losses fighting a futile war to expand their country's borders on the orders of their daimyō,  their clan fractured on the cusp of survival with some having left the country as bandits while others desire restoration. 

They are then by approached by Kimimaro representing as an envoy for Orochimaru of the Sannin, offering them a place at his newly established shinobi village for a chance to return to their former glory. Arashi, seen as the hope of the Fūma clan, accepted the offer to join along with Jigumo, Kamikiri, Kotohime, and Kagerō.

 Appearance 
Arashi had long, smooth, chin-length purple hair and grey-coloured eyes. His bangs hung just over his eyebrows. He wore a green short sleeve shirt, but the collar and sleeves were white. He also wore two black arm sleeves on his lower arms and long grey pants.

 Abilities 
Arashi was one of the most talented members of the Fūma Clan. He could perform his clan's most secret technique that creates a pyramid shaped barrier that constricts and potentially crushes the opponent. After absorbing the bodies of two other Fūma Clan members, he became a large malleable mass able to unleash the signature techniques of his absorbed kin.

 Part I 
 Land of Rice Fields Investigation Mission 

Posing as Orochimaru before being found by Naruto Uzumaki, Sakura Haruno, and Sasame, Arashi killed his kinsmen Jigumo and Kamikiri and used Casualty Puppet on them to increase his powers to use the Curse Mandala at the cost of his sanity. In the fight that followed, Naruto ripped the corpse puppets off of Arashi's back while snapping him back to his senses. However, the fight caused the lair to collapse as Arashi, with his puppets holding him in place, remained behind as he revealed that he had no intention of leaving as it meant his death either way.

 Trivia 
 When written as 嵐, "Arashi" means "storm".

pt-br:Arashi