Title: Armadiko
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Armadiko
-----------------------

is a giant armadillo living on the Island Turtle.

 Personality 
He is rather shy and reserved individual that speaks in a very soft, and mild manner which leads others to easily thinking that he is actually a female.

 Appearance 
Armadiko resembles most any armadillo with the exception of his size. He also has on what appears to be lipstick around his mouth giving him the appearance of a female. His leathery, armour shell is the kanji for .

 Part II 
 Fourth Shinobi World War: Countdown 

A fight breaks between Don, Chūji and Hippo Boss over Armadiko's affections. King breaks up the fight and commands that the female animal they are fighting over to be brought over to settle who she'll pick. When Armadiko arrives, King is in shock and angered to see who it is, revealing that he as well has affections for Armadiko. Shocking everyone, and much to Condor's amusement, Armadiko chooses Naruto Uzumaki over all of them — much to the young man's dismay as the animals prepare to beat him to death. Naruto flees and Armadiko chases after him. Armadiko is later seen snuggling up to a distressed Naruto as the other animals march into the temple.

Inside the temple, as Naruto begins the ecological survey Armadiko attempts to leave. Naruto has great difficulty in deciphering whether or not Armadiko is male or female because of his mannerisms conflicting with the kanji on his armour. After being asked by B Armadiko still refuses to show them its genitalia. Shortly after this several tremors are felt on the island from Deidara's explosion and the animals are flipped upside down by Manda II's attack. Though most emerge unharmed due to Yamato's quick thinking, Armadiko is sent crashing to the ground and falls unconscious. Here it is revealed that Armadiko is actually male much to the others' disappointment.

 Trivia 
 This character's name derives from the anime though he appeared in the manga as well.
 In the manga, Armadiko's genitals are visible when his gender is uncovered.Naruto chapter 513, page 16 In the TV-broadcast of the anime, however, this is censored and the genitalia is removed. It is visible in the uncensored version of the episode.Naruto: Shippūden episode 255