Title: Asaki
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Asaki
-----------------------

is a member of the Yoimura Clan, as well as Remon Yoimura's attendant.

 Personality 
Asaki is a very compassionate and dutiful woman. She cares very much for her village and Remon. She is also shown to be a very observant woman, as she was the only one to notice that Kankitsu was acting strangely.

 Appearance 
Asaki is an elderly woman with long wavy white-greyish hair. She wears small glasses and a red violet kimono with a matching apron, white tabi, and sandals.

 New Era 
 Konohamaru's Love Arc 

As the village was preparing for the wedding ritual between Kankitsu Akitsuki and Remon, they were approached by Konohamaru Sarutobi and Boruto Uzumaki, who previously befriended Remon. While they were asked to leave by Kankitsu, Asaki soon after approached them, voicing her concerns about Kankitsu's recent change in nature and asked the ninja to investigate him. Soon afterwards, she was approached by Kankitsu, who used the power of Sōma to wipe her recent memories. She was later approached by Boruto, wondering who the boy was and how he knew the Yoimura residence's location.

Before she could ponder more, she noticed Kankitsu walking by with Remon's special hair clip. She then followed Kankitsu into the sacred shrine housing Sōma, where he prepared to destroy Remon's hair clip. She stopped him and demanded to know his true intentions. Instead Kankitsu prepared to kill her, but was stopped by Boruto. Kankitsu then fired his energy at Boruto, which, Asaki shielded from Boruto with her body and collapsing. Boruto soon found himself in a similar outcome.

After Konohamaru managed to sever Sōma's horns and Remon trapped it permanently within her body, Asaki, whose memories had returned, watched over the unconscious Remon with Kankitsu. As she had awakened, Remon however did not either remember the two or herself, much to Asaki's concerns. Despite that, Kankitsu decided to help Remon remember as much as possible from then on.