Title: Babu
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Babu
-----------------------

was a Yugakure shinobi.

 Background 

Babu and his comrades were on a mission to deliver a scroll of secret data while being guarded by Team Minato. While crossing the forest, they were attacked by their opponents, causing Team Minato to split up, leaving Rin Nohara and Kakashi Hatake with the Yugakure shinobi. They take them to the bridge, but Shinbu was injured and fell off the cliff. Switching sides, Babu and Inagi revealed that they were traitors and mortally wounded Iwato by attacking him from behind. They then attacked Kakashi, who defended himself with an earthen wall, and then counterattacked, injuring Babu with his blade. Inagi picked up an injured comrade and they left.

Iwato revealed that he knew about the traitors among their group, but he didn't know who they were. Therefore, they had two scrolls to deceive the traitor. The second scroll was held by the Shinbu, followed by Babu, Inagi and the rest of their allies. Iwato died, and Obito Uchiha began the pursuit of the traitors, the rest of the team joining him. After some time, Obito and Rin found Shinbu, but at the same time, Babu and Inagi found him, attacking their former comrade. Obito saved him, and Kakashi joined the attackers in battle. They began to overwhelm Kakashi with numbers, despite the fact that he was able to hurt Inagi, but at that time Minato Namikaze arrived and killed all the opponents.

 Personality 
Babu was a greedy person, ready to kill his comrade for profit, and also attacked children without hesitation.

 Appearance 
Babu was a rather tall man with short brown hair, black eyes and a very large nose. He wore a grey turtleneck and pants, and a purple flak jacket with one chest pocket on the left side, and one stomach pocket on the right side. In addition, a one-piece bandanna with a forehead protector was tied around his head, completely covering his head, and a brown bag hangs on the belt from the back.

 Trivia 
 In the English voice acting, Babu and his teammate, Shinbu, are voiced by the same actor.