Title: Batora Kuromori
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Batora_Kuromori
-----------------------

is a former shinobi and the butler of Kae Yukiwari from the Land of Bamboo.

 Background 
A former shinobi, Bataro was later taken in by the king, giving him a new life in the Land of Bamboo. 

 Personality 

He is quite dutiful, even complying with Kae's more childish requests, understanding them as a way of Kae reclaiming lost experiences due to her station. He is also quite a responsible person who followed the movement of people in the kitchen, remembering every moment. His desire to protect and help Kae stems from a deep sense of gratitude to her father for giving him a new life in the Land of Bamboo. Aside from his loyalty to her father, Batora is also quite attached to Kae herself, inquiring about her condition after her studies and rejoicing that she was able to make a friend and seeing how hard she works on her goals.  

 Appearance 
Batora is a lean man with short brown hair and cloven eyebrows, as well as grey eyes, under which he has noticeable long lines. He wears a grey suit, and brown boots. When inside the house, he wears blue slippers.

 Abilities 
Batora is a retired shinobi, he remains strong enough to carry a heavy stone statue of the Third Hokage without getting out of breath, and remains skilled in Water Release. Since retiring, he has become weaker to physical assaults, passing out when Kawaki crashed into his groin. As Kae's caretaker, he is implied to be a skilled homemaker, tending to her needs. He is implied to be a skilled baker, offering to make her a cake. In order to better serve her outside their accommodations, he has memorised the location of various relevant locations, such as her friends homes. Likewise, he is a very skilled investigator, having gathered enough evidence to discover the mastermind behind an assassination plot.

 New Era 
 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

Batora was sent to Konohagakure to serve Kae while she enrolled in the village's Academy. After spending a few days at the Academy, Batora asked if she was satisfied, to which she responded that she was and that she made a new friend. When Kae invited her class-mates for a tea party, Batora oversaw the preparation of the sweets and desserts, though Kae insisted on making the cake herself. During a commotion, Kawaki rushed towards Kae and fell on Batora, briefly knocking him unconscious. After recovering, he showed Kawaki and Himawari around the kitchen, explaining where the cake had been stored. After the party, he supervised the cleaning staff.

Days later, when a group of students decided to investigate the Academy's Seven Mysteries, Kae joined them and had Batora fake them with Kawaki's help. When one of the mysteries was seemingly real, they chased a shrouded figure, and eventually discovered they were Shino's insects cleaning the Academy.

When Himawari didn't show up for a shopping trip with Kae, Batora accompanied Kae as she looked for Himawari. Checking with Kawaki, they found her pendant on the street, and followed up looking for Osuka, Batora knowing where her residence was. They discovered Osuka had been kidnapped for ransom, and deduced that Himawari had also been kidnapped. They visited Neon for more information, who told them more of Osuka's home life, before using a new sensing function of her drone to find them. Batora and Kae took care of Himawari and Osuka as Kawaki defeated the kidnapper's leader. After their arrest, Hibari arrived and reconciled with her daughter, after which Osuka apologised for her attitude, and Hibari invited everyone for pudding.

On the day of the school festival, Batora claimed he was unable to attend due to other unavoidable matters, though he was actually investigating a person of interest in the plot to assassinate Kae, having lost track of them at the festival. He appeared in the background of one of Sōsha's photos. He later informed Kae that her father wanted her back home, and assured her that despite being on a mission, Kawaki certainly considered her a friend, pointing out his refraining to report the possibility of an assassin so she could enjoy the festival instead of having it cancelled. When the assassin attacked Kae at her home, Batora was injured in his arm protecting her. Himawari looked after them while Kawaki chased the assassin, who committed suicide to hide their identity. With the intel Batora gathered, the Land of Bamboo authorities discovered the plot's mastermind was their minister and arrested him.

When Hana Kaka was discovered to have a Land of Bamboo background, it uncovered the rest of the plot against Kae. Batora joined Sai in going to the island where her class was, and reunited with Kae after Hana was defeated, and her teacher personality reasserting control. Because Kae had to return as her father had taken ill, the class decided to put on their Sannin play, with Batora in attendance. He later joined Kae on the train back home.

 Trivia 
 His name could be a shortening of , the Japanese reading of his position, butler.

pt-br:Batora Kuromori