Title: Batta
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Batta
-----------------------

is a kunoichi from Kumogakure.

 Background 
Batta was born on a small island whose inhabitants were displaced after it was bought by rich resort developers.

 Personality 
Batta is a blunt and self-absorbed individual, interested only in her own personal gain, extending help to others only when it benefited her, leveraging and exploiting their own unfortunate situations as it suits her. Even when taken captive by Ōga, she questioned and complained about her situation in an annoyed tone. She was also quite suspicious, readily questioning Ōga when she deemed his explanation of what happened to her lacking.

Her selfish attitude stems from the loss of her home, which also shaped her belief that wealthy people don't care about those less privileged. She has enough professionalism to put those feelings aside for a mission, and hates being lied to and used, quickly turning on those who did. However, she is distressed at having to kill innocent civilians to save herself and Fugō, visibly shaken afterwards.

 Appearance 
Batta is a fairly tall young girl of slender frame with tanned complexion and messy red hair framing her face and green eyes. She wore a white forehead protector, a white hoodie down to her navel with a white skirt, and black leggings.

 Abilities 

Batta is proficient in using Wind Release, allowing her to conjure a powerful gust of wind in the surrounding area, and boosting herself or others to higher altitudes. She was also able to find structural weak points by placing her hands on and sending her chakra through it.

 New Era 
 Labyrinth Game Arc 

Batta and the other passengers of a Thunder Train were taken captive by Ōga, who claimed they had survived an accident. Batta remembered no accident and remained suspicious of him. He explained he would put them through a series of experiments to test their ability to avoid death. During the first experiment, involving a crumbling platform, instead of immediately jumping to safety, she exploited Fugō, who she perceived to be weak, convincing him to hire her for safety in exchange for the money she believed him to have in a briefcase he was holding on to tightly. When he agreed to hire her, she used her Wind Release to boost herself and him onto a safe platform. Namua warned her that her strong jutsu would further destabilise the crumbling platform, but she paid no mind to it. Safe, she waited for the experiment to end, noting there were still 14 survivors before being allowed back in the room they woke up at for rest.

While waiting for the next experiment to begin, she continued to dismiss Boruto's suggestions of cooperation. When Ōga began it and explained the rules of how the candles they received were connected to their lives, Batta quickly determined it was possible to claim someone else's candle. During a water-filled portion of the experiment, she went on ahead of the group that decided to work together, along Fugō and Rokuro. She was interested when she heard commotion behind them, and offered to carry Fugō's briefcase so he could hold his lantern with both hands, which he refused. Crossing the next area, she had to wait until there were enough people to ride an elevator. However, the elevator was slow-moving, and everyone's candles wouldn't last the ride, so Fugō ordered her to claim two civilians' candles from them. Shaken as she left the elevator, she was surprised when no one on the other elevator died, having all combined their candles into a long, shared candle.

Batta struggled with having killed civilians, but rejected Yatsume's attempt to comfort her, also clashing with Shama and Boruto. Kiseru didn't judge her, but warned against trying to sacrifice him, Batta mocking him for showing off his Fire Release in an attempt to intimidate her. Yatsume got everyone to share their dreams, but Batta refused to share hers. She noted Batta's use of "need" instead of "want" when talking about money, so Batta shared she wanted to buy an island. Ōga started the experiment, which had them in a room where the ceiling was triggered to descend on them, switches in the room changing its hazards. She and Fugō argued against pressing the last switch, but it revealed alcoves on the walls. Boruto had allowed the injured Yatsume onto one, so Batta would have to kill her to take her place. She wanted to know the reason behind her death, so Batta confessed to needing money to buy her home back from rich resort developers. Boruto had discovered that the room's floor had a hidden space beneath it, and convinced Batta to help him with it by appealing to her desire against playing into Ōga's hand. She found a structural weak point, allowing Boruto to break through the floor, the extra space helping them all survive. As everyone left, she bumped into Kiseru on her way to Boruto, and shared her suspicion that he was Ōga's subordinate, showing Boruto the working communication device Kiseru had kept hidden.

She suspected Kiseru when she noticed a discrepancy in his story, the mountain hot springs of his alleged home village facing east to sunrises, and blocked to any sunsets in the west. She believed him to be receiving instructions to keep the experiments running smoothly, and would remain on her guard, despite Boruto's scepticism at her accusation. When she and Boruto returned to the waiting room, the group had already picked the next experiment, "Calculation". Each of them had a card with a number from 1 to 8, and had to reach a gate within two hours with enough cards to sum 7. Batta had the 3 card, and found Fugō, who had 2. She wanted to target Shamo, who she saw as the weakest. When she picked up Fugō's briefcase when he tripped, she found it suspiciously light, and fighting over it with him, discovered he had no money, as he explained he was trying to threaten his family's kidnappers with a chemical on his canteen. She took his card, and while he begged for her help, he was killed from behind, stabbed. Batta looked up at the assailant, Yatsume, before being struck down herself.

However, the real Batta was still alive and in suspended animation, among those who got killed in Ōga's genjutsu. When Boruto refused to give up on Yatsume, who was the real Ōga, she woke up from the genjutsu on her own and freed everyone. Batta had a change of heart and decided to give Fugō a discount, as his family was struggling.

 Trivia 
 "Batta" (飛蝗) means "locust".
 "Batta" could also be a shortening of either of the following:
 , meaning "with a clash", "unexpectedly (meeting someone)", or "abruptly (coming to a halt)".
 , meaning "selection (esp. from many people for an important job position)", "exceptional promotion".