Title: Black Shadow
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Black_Shadow
-----------------------

was a demon of the Tree Felling Village who appeared in Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja 4. 

 Appearance 

At first, Black Shadow took the form of a short, stocky man in a long blue and white robe. He had tiny yellow dots for eyes, and hair coming out from the robe. In his true form, Black Shadow appeared as a giant wolf with five eyes, two heads, and six legs. He also has a set of large wings and a long brown tail.

 Abilities 

True to his namesake, Black Shadow possessed numerous shadow-based abilities. For example, he could employ darkness to restrain a person which apparently so powerful that no mortal was able to escape it. He could also summon a large number of shadow ninja for combat assistance. Another notable abilities of Black Shadow were shooting flying spikes that home in on their foe, creating wooden tentacles that burst from the ground through impaling his tail, splitting into smaller forms (be it a number of his humanoid forms or a pack of fast and agile wolf-like creatures that must be destroyed in order to force him to reform), teleporting, performing the Bringer-of-Darkness Technique, and generating a crystalline near-impregnable barrier to block a section of Tree Felling Village's cave.

He also appeared to have immense physical strength, as one slash from his paw sent Naruto flying back several feet and in another case, he created several fissures through direct contact with the ground.

 Plot Overview 
He lived in a cave in the Tree Felling Village and required a sacrifice to keep himself appeased. Naruto Uzumaki later presumably killed it by releasing the jinchuriki inside of him, his body vanished in turn a trunk and wilting flowers appeared,and also the seed of the Tree of Life.  The village then changed its name to the Tree Revival Village a month later. He is vulnerable to the smell of the flowers from the Tree of Life. It's status is unknown,but it's presumed he died.

Later, Guy and Naruto travel to his cave and seeing that the demon is not around, Guy pretends to become possessed by Black Shadow, although his act does not fool Naruto even after Guy is defeated and claims that he needs more training because his mind was so overpowered by the demon.

 Trivia 
 It only talks in katakana in the Japanese version.