Title: Boruto Uzumaki
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Boruto_Uzumaki
-----------------------

is a missing-nin from Konohagakure's Uzumaki clan and Hyūga clan through his parents. After being marked by Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki, and meeting Kawaki, who shared a similar mark, the boy was adopted into Boruto's family, with hopes of removing the marks. However, Boruto was later forced to defect from the village when he was framed for killing his parents after the world's memories of him were altered.Boruto chapter 80, pages 22-25 However, despite losing everything, he remains determined to prove his innocence and regain everything taken from him.

 Background 

Boruto is the first child of Naruto and Hinata Uzumaki, born four years after the Fourth Shinobi World War. He received a younger sister, Himawari, two years later. As his parents continued to stay close to their childhood friends over the years, Boruto ultimately came to know the various parents' respective kids well.

On the day that Naruto was to be inaugurated as the Seventh Hokage, Himawari wanted to bring her panda toy to the ceremony, but Boruto, fearing that he would end up carrying it, tried to take it away from her. When the toy's head was ripped off in the ensuing tug-of-war, Himawari awakened her Byakugan and attacked Boruto in her anger, despite his vehement apologies. Naruto, sensing her killing intent, arrived and shielded Boruto, and was knocked out in the process due to the attack landing on one of his chakra points. Fearful of what an attack that could knock-out his father would do to him, Boruto tried to run from Himawari, although she easily located him hiding in a closet. From then on, he vowed never to anger her again.

Soon after, Naruto's important new job left little time for him to be with his family, angering Boruto. He would begin pulling various pranks about the village, all for the goal of getting his father's attention.

 Personality 
Boruto is loud, energetic, and stubborn not unlike his father; even possessing a verbal tic, , similar to Naruto's "dattebayo" and his paternal grandmother's . But compared to his father, Naruto at his age, Boruto is more refined and crafty, seemingly knowing all the shortcuts, as well as more mature in knowing how the world works. Between the two, he is more sarcastic. Unlike Naruto, Boruto doesn't yell what he feels, which is the biggest difference.Kishimoto Interview 2017 Despite his laid-back attitude, he is very diligent.Boruto episode 5 Conversely, Boruto's upbringing has also been different than that of his father's: Boruto's family is always there for him, and he likewise has many friends, and his acquisitions came easily and naturally to him from a combination of prodigious talents and nurturing parents. In complete contrast, Naruto grew up without parents or friends, never having any talent as a shinobi and had to work harder than others to earn respect.

For these reasons, Boruto has a high opinion of himself and freely brags about his abilities. Still, his arrogance has made him put no value in teammates or teamwork, believing he can do anything on his own. He felt in achieving success as the main point of anything, even taking insincere shortcuts to do so, such as utilising a cheat program to win a video game easily, or using the Kote to create a façade of performing an advanced technique to earn his right to be Sasuke's disciple, and later swiftly resorting to the same device to defeat opponents once they seem to have an upper hand. After seeing how selfish and amoral he was acting from resorting to such a tool, he gained a newfound respect for actual hard work. At the same time, he also earned a strong dislike at anyone relying on such advanced tools, believing that one should rely solely on their natural skill. Upon meeting Ao, however, he came to appreciate that tools, no matter how advanced, are not inherently good or bad, but merely a means to a goal that depends on its user. Also, upon seeing how such inventions could be used even small animals, he came to appreciate Katasuke Tōno's work.

Despite Boruto's arrogance, he does not look down on anyone else and is very loyal to his friends. Without hesitation, he had repeatedly come to the aid of Denki Kaminarimon when he was physically harmed. He also avoids confrontation, or name-calling when someone is talking behind his back, completely ignoring the situation altogether unless his friends get hurt, which shows his maturity.Boruto episode 2 Even when a friend was revealed to be an enemy, he remained determined to help bring them back from their dark path. He loves his mother and sister deeply — becoming indignant when either is hurt physically or emotionally. Despite loving his little sister, Boruto is terrified of her and promised himself he would never upset her again. Both Sasuke and Naruto commented that Boruto resembled each other when they were younger, and he had indeed displayed characteristics of both shinobi when they were younger, causing Naruto to state that his son is something entirely different from both of them. For example, he displayed Naruto's mischievous habits to get attention and Sasuke's desire for power even by using shortcuts. Similar to that of their parents, Boruto shares a complicated relationship with Sasuke's daughter, Sarada. The two are often at odds, with the young Uchiha valuing the Hokage post while Boruto was showing utter disdain for it. Despite that, Boruto cares for Sarada and her dream, as witnessed during the Chūnin Exams, when he voiced his desire to win to not diminish Sarada's progress to becoming Hokage. Three years after leaving the village, Boruto is quite happy to reunite with Sarada and even seemed somewhat flustered by her impulsively hugging him. Though he quickly leaves due to still being branded a traitor, Boruto swears to rescue her father and eventually return to her.

Overall, Boruto's unwavering loyalty to his friends have continually proven to be a strong influence to all around him, many even noting that he has become the foundation for his friends as he is determined to keep his friends together. Boruto is also against sacrificing other people to ensure his own survival, as when Kawaki suggested him to implant Kāma onto someone to create his own vessel, Boruto was against the idea, even when Kawaki considered using Code, a fanatical worshipper of Isshiki Ōtsutsuki and a definite enemy to Boruto.

Although Boruto loves his father, Naruto and is overjoyed when they spend time together, their relationship has been strained ever since Naruto became the Seventh Hokage. Because of the job's many responsibilities that prevent Naruto from being around all the time, it has led Boruto feeling neglected and becoming resentful toward the Hokage title, only seeing it as a position that takes his father away from him and declaring it, aware that Naruto grew up as an orphan, as only fit for those with no loved ones. Eventually, after Boruto is exposed to the complications of his father's life, he finally understands and forgives his father's busy schedule and stops trying to take the easy options in life.

While initially only wanting to know about his father's past so as to surpass his father, Boruto becomes genuinely curious about Naruto's history, as he asks his father about his past, particularly about how he has come to become one of the strongest shinobi ever to live, despite being seemingly utterly hopeless in everything else. From his battle against Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki, Boruto ultimately came to see his father in a new light, both admiring his might as a shinobi yet still having such an equally selfless nature to protect the village. Afterward, he and Naruto were able to find common grounds and have a healthy relationship again, with Naruto agreeing to show up more often in person while Boruto stopped demanding his father's time altogether, both openly pushing the other forward in their goals. Despite having let go of his anger towards Naruto and his disdain for the Kage title, even coming to respect his father and his great might as Hokage, Boruto plainly states that he has no intention to become Hokage. He opts to walk his own path instead, becoming a support for the Hokage instead, like how his master is. Boruto also has a remarkable will, able to endure surreal experiences with optimism and actually feel for the people who caused them when he knows there was no true malice behind it, such as his ordeal with Ada and Kawaki rewrote his history in everyone's memories. Momoshiki's attempts to demoralise him over this were also unsuccessful.

Boruto likes burgers where he would rush to get a limited-edition burger , on the last day it would be sold, and would sometimes carry burger discount coupons. He notes that his favourite dish is a yakisoba bun.Boruto episode 4 Boruto also has a love for spicy food, having a greater tolerance for the flavour than his friends, whom usually become sickened from it. He also appears to enjoy drawing a lot, while seemingly oblivious to his poor skill for it.Boruto episode 7 Despite this, Sai noted Boruto had the potential to use Super Beast Scroll due to his passion for drawing. Boruto appears to be influenced by the famous movie character, Kagemasa, as after obtaining his Jōgan, he for a while mimicked the hero's attitude while wearing a replica of the character's visor.

During the three years that Boruto remained away from Konoha, his personality matured drastically; he became calm, nonchalant, focused and decisive, refusing to let anything or anyone rile him up, and rarely ever smiles. Even when he was locked up and under threat of torture and execution, Boruto is still able to maintain his composure. However, despite the hardships he has endured for three years, he still remains loyal to his loved ones, eager to protect them and being quite happy to see Sarada and Himawari again, showing that his kind-heartedness hasn't entirely vanished. He even desires to peacefully reconcile with Kawaki as he still viewed the boy as his brother, though he is more than willing to defend himself should Kawaki attack him.

Having narrowly escaped death at Jura's hands, Boruto grew so desperate to defeat the God Trees, he proposed a deal to Momoshiki. If Momoshiki provided his full support in utilizing the Karma against Jura, he'll willingly hand over his body to him. However, he makes Boruto makes it clear that this agreement will only be honored on the condition they destroy all the God Trees first. Though due to their thoughts melding together, Momoshiki deduces that Boruto is banking on Kawaki killing the both of them first.

 Appearance 

Boruto is a fair-skinned boy of lean, well-built frameBoruto chapter 68 cover and short height. He has spiky, blond hair, and blue eyes, which according to Sarada, are brighter than Naruto's. Influenced from his Jinchūriki father, Boruto and two whisker markings on each of his cheeks. Overall, he bears a great resemblance to his father. Boruto's hairstyle resembles a leaf, his  serving as the stem. 

At age 5, Boruto wore a black tracksuit that had a red fire symbol on the left breast, a symbol that resembled a bolt on the back, and dark pink stripes along the sides of his pants. Early in his days as an Academy student, his outfit is quite similar to his previous attire, with additional dark pink stripes on the jacket. Beneath this jacket — which he leaves unzipped — he wears a white T-shirt and a bolt tied to a string around his neck. He wears a longer jacket by the time he's a genin and a belt in the manga, but his clothing is otherwise the same, except the addition of a forehead protector and a dark pink Uzumaki Clan symbol on the back instead of the bolt.

In addition, in the manga, Boruto is seen wearing a small black rubber band around his left ankle. He also wears a similar black rubber band around his left wrist. Boruto also briefly wore his father's original orange jacket, along with Sasuke's scratched forehead protector. After Momoshiki makes contact with his arm, Boruto gains the Kāma, a black diamond-shape seal, on his right palm.Boruto chapter 14, page 1 While staying in the past, Boruto wore a red vest, grey long sleeve, and long shorts as a disguise. In the anime, at Sasuke's order, Boruto began wearing a fingerless glove on his right hand to conceal the Kāma. 

After the defeat of Isshiki Ōtsutsuki, Boruto resumed wearing Sasuke's forehead protector. He would wear his old clothes again when he was an Academy student. When Momoshiki used the Kāma's remaining data to reconstruct Boruto's chest cavity after he was mortally wounded by Kawaki, Boruto gained a large scar resembling a black geometric Kāma pattern on his chest.Boruto chapter 67, page 36 Boruto's right eye was later slashed by Kawaki, leaving a scar extending diagonally from just above his eyebrow, a small corneal abrasion over the pupil,Boruto chapter 78, page 35 to his cheek, intersecting his top whisker marking. The attack resulted in Boruto's eye going blind and damaged the right side of Sasuke's forehead protector, leaving a matching cut that crosses the existing cut created by Naruto.Boruto chapter 79, page 1 

One year later after his departure from Konoha, he became noticeably taller and his hair became long with bangs covering the left side of his face. He began wearing a white button-downed shirt, black pants, black shin-high sandals, a black jacket with a purple ends on the sleeve, and black cloak. His shirt is half buttoned, leaving his chest exposed and the shirt cuffs unbuttoned and folded up. On his pants, he wears two beige belts with six silver studs on the top one while the lower one has silver chain hanging off it. His jacket has lapel flaps and the sleeves are folded up to his elbows. After his master was imprisoned, Boruto began carrying Sasuke's sword.

Two years later, his hair was trimmed, but became unruly. He is also noted to have become very handsome. On his blazer, he has three silver pins on his right lapel in the shape of a hexagon, a rectangle, and the sun respectively, and another pin on his left lapel shaped like the Konoha symbol. He also wears a second necklace with an Uzumaki symbol pendant. His cloak has purple on the inside and has open collars folded downward. On his left arm, he wears a simple beige bracelet and a black, fingerless glove.

After battling the Human God Trees in the Land of Wind, he began wearing a third necklace resembling a Flying Thunder God Kunai and donned a new dress shirt and exchanged his blazer for a black funnel collar zip-up track jacket with front pockets and pink lining and rolled up pink cuffs, a bolt design on the left chest, and his pins arranged to the right of the zipper.

By age 16, he wears an outfit similar to his genin days, but with a beige belt that's flap hangs loosely, black pants reaching above his ankles with red lining on the ends, regular shinobi sandals, and thicker red lining around the ends of the jacket sleeves. He also continues to wear a black glove on his left hand, black cloak, and Uzumaki symbol necklace. He also resumes wearing Sasuke's forehead protector.

 Abilities 

Stemming from his Uzumaki-Hyūga bloodlines, Boruto is regarded as an elite genin who can accomplish anything in short periods of time,"Boruto: Road to B", page 2Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 5, page 4 and noted as having the potential to surpass his father.Boruto chapter 6, page 32 A prodigy who inherited his paternal grandfather's genius and his father's unpredictability,Boruto episode 168 his skills were evaluated at the top three at the start of his Academy class.Boruto episode 2 By the Genin Exams, he is recognised by the Sixth Hokage as having chūnin-level prowess and being well-above the rest of his generation.Boruto episode 36 He is considered a threat to the Ōtsutsuki Clan,Boruto episode 66 proving crucial in defeating members like Momoshiki and Urashiki. In the anime, he has even defeated the Kara Inner member, Deepa. After Momoshiki's Kāma made Boruto a complete Ōtsutsuki, it greatly enhanced his potential.Boruto chapter 68, page 5 A year after leaving Konoha, Boruto mastered every skill and technique Sasuke could pass on to him.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 5, page 3 Two years later under Koji Kashin's training, Boruto's prowess greatly increased, able to easily overpower the full-powered Code.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 3 He also became a threat to the Human God Trees,Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 22, page 24 able to defeat members like Hidari,Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 12, pages 26-28 and could hold his own against their leader, Jura.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 23 Later, after forming an agreement with Momoshiki, Boruto gains access to the entirety of the Ōtsutsuki's powers, becoming strong enough to easily overpower dozens of Human God Trees at once.

 Chakra and Physical Prowess 
From being an Uzumaki, Boruto inherited a powerful life-force. Like his father, he has very large chakra reserves,Boruto: Naruto the Movie novel able to create multiple shadow clones even after most of his chakra was absorbed.Boruto episode 6 In the anime, Boruto's body proved strong enough to handle natural energy and learn senjutsu, having passed the trials of Ryūchi Cave. From his Hyūga heritage, his chakra control is very advanced, able to perform and effectively use the Rasengan after a few days of training with a single hand and instinctively improving on it.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 6, page 29, panel 3 He is also able to perform one-handed handsigns.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 6, page 29 It is stated, in the anime, that he strongly inherited the power of the Ōtsutsuki.Boruto episode 65 To which, he can perceive and communicate with deceased Ōtsutsuki spirits.Boruto chapter 10, page 12 After adjusting to his newfound Ōtsutsuki state, Boruto became able to conceal his signature on instinct from others.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 6, page 16

Before entering the Academy, Boruto is noticeably fast and skilled in taijutsu, able to quickly get behind his opponents unnoticed and perform relentless assaults through coordinated strikes from each of his limbs. From his mother's family, he was taught the Gentle Fist.Boruto chapter 4, page 37 Though due to not originally possessing the Byakugan, Boruto could not make use of its ability to target an enemy's tenketsu, he became able to through the manifestation of either his Jōgan and the Kāma's Byakugan.Boruto chapter 64  He also possesses considerable strength, as his strikes can upturn the groundBoruto episode 37 plus can pick up and carry a man twice his size.Boruto episode 233 After Boruto became a complete Ōtsutsuki, his base form's physical prowess had noticeably grown, as he could block an attack from a Kāma-enhanced Kawaki,Boruto chapter 78, pages 15-16 and evade attacks from a Sage Mode-enhanced Mitsuki.Boruto chapter 79, pages 31-34 Three years later, he becomes fast enough to dodge Jura’s various Tailed Beast Ball-sniper shots.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 23, page 8-9 

 Ninjutsu 

Boruto has exceptional ninjutsu talent,Zai no Sho, page 26 being self-taught in creating shadow clones even before entering the Academy.Boruto episode 1 and coordinate attacks with his clones to perform chūnin, if not jōnin-level manoeuvres. Initially could only create up to three clones,Boruto episode 11 he later could create dozens of them at once.Boruto episode 175 In the anime, he entered a temporary contract with Garaga, letting him summon the giant snake at any time.Boruto episode 77 Likewise, he formed a kinship with snakes, able to befriend random snakes to aid him.Boruto episode 221 He can also perform Cooperation Ninjutsu and Fūinjutsu, able to use both to restrict a person's movements and expand the might of this alongside fellow users.Boruto episode 159

From Konohamaru, Boruto learned the Rasengan, originally as a small ball between both hands and later at normal size using a single hand, even throw it as a projectile.Boruto chapter 16, page 23 In the anime, he learns to compress it for greater power.Boruto episode 171 After gaining better control over Momoshiki's power, he becomes capable of using the Ultra-Big Ball Rasengan.Boruto chapter 78, page 20 During his three years away from Konoha, Boruto learned to harness the Earth's natural rotation through his Rasengan to cause various degrees of effects from permanent disorientation to one-hit kills on a target. From gaining better control over his Ōtsutsuki Teleportation, Boruto was able to develop his own version of the Flying Thunder God Technique,Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 16, pages 2-3 even using it to teleport across dimensions.

 Bukijutsu 
Boruto has considerable skill in kenjutsu. As an Academy student, he could effectively wield one half of the Hiramekarei blade,Boruto episode 31 then later on after graduating could briefly use a new prototype Chakra Blade to effectively slice off Ao's limbs.Boruto chapter 22, pages 22-23 In his three years away from Konoha, Boruto had mastered Uchiha Style Kenjutsu, where he continuously flows chakra or lightning into his blade to increase its sharpness, allowing him to dispatch Code's Claw Grime with relative ease,Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 2, pages 23-28 as well as slice off Jura's leg.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 23, page 12 From early training with Sasuke, he became very skilled in shurikenjutsu, able to change a weapon's trajectory mid-flight and infuse lightning into his shuriken.

 Nature Transformation 

Boruto can perform multiple nature transformations. With his affinity in Lightning Release,Boruto episode 60 able to launch bolts to electrocute his targets. With Wind Release, he can generate strong winds to repel targets. As an Academy student, Boruto could simultaneously perform Lightning and Wind Release for manoeuvres like the Boruto Stream. As a genin, he learned Water Release,Boruto chapter 1, page 23 able to use techniques such as ,Boruto: Naruto Next Generations, Volume 1's Boruto's Profile and Water Release: Surging Sea.Boruto chapter 16, page 24 Three years later, he learns to use the Purple Electricity in a similar manner to Sasuke's Chidori-techniques.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 6, pages 30-31Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 23, page 15 When first learning the Rasengan, he subconsciously applied lightning chakra to it (wind in the novel), a feat most shinobi prodigies couldn't accomplish. Upon throwing the technique, the nature transformation abruptly activates, turning it invisible, and tricks the opponent into letting their guard down as sufficient damage is inflicted when it makes contact. In the anime, after training under Kakashi, Boruto learned to perform the Wind Release: Rasengan, though it is incomplete and lacks much more power than a standard Rasengan.Boruto episode 169

 Kāma 

After defeating Momoshiki, Boruto's right hand was forcibly marked with a four-point black diamond seal. Noted to have similar properties to Orochimaru's Juinjutsu, it is a genetic backup of the branding Ōtsutsuki, subconsciously allowing Boruto to access Momoshiki's experience and powers. According to Isshiki, Boruto has a rare natural compatibility for the mark, such that it will enable the God Tree to produce the highest quality of Chakra Fruit. This compatibility also allowed Boruto to instinctively develop and synchronise with it at an accelerated rate, progressing tremendously in the short time since obtaining it. Even without proper training, Boruto became able to utilise more of the mark's power with little struggle, something that even Isshiki found surprising.
 
When accessing the Kāma's power, Boruto becomes able to fight on par with Inners of Kara. When activated, the mark stretches and expands to cover his entire arm and the right side of his face in a series of elegant lines. While doing so, it greatly boosts his physical parameters, lets him absorb virtually any ninjutsu or chakra-based target, and can produce portals to other realms. At first, he could not access the mark willingly and it took a huge toll on his chakra, but was later taught how to be more efficient by Kawaki. 

Originally, the Kāma was a threat to Boruto's life: from the moment he was branded with it, his entire genetic data was gradually being rewritten with Momoshiki’s so that he could resurrect in Boruto's body.Boruto chapter 46, page 25 When drained of enough chakra or knocked out, Boruto's Kāma will fully manifest Momoshiki's consciousness to take control of Boruto's body, gaining access to Boruto's knowledge and abilities in addition to his own. In this state, a flat horn protrudes from the right side of Boruto's forehead, curving up and back slightly. This also causes his right eye to become a Byakugan. Likewise, all previous damage to him is negated while the Kāma is active.

Boruto's contact with Kawaki, who bears Isshiki's Kāma, created a resonance that accelerated the takeover rate of both vessels. After Isshiki's defeat, Boruto was given a special medicine developed by Amado to suppress the Kāma's progressing. It seemingly allowed him to access the Kāma's powers without his mind being taken over by Momoshiki. This however proved only temporary. Following his death in an attempt to stop Momoshiki's control, Boruto was resurrected by Momoshiki using the remaining Kāma data, making Boruto a complete Ōtsutsuki while physically remaining himself.Boruto chapter 67, pages 32-38 This made Momoshiki no longer able to resurrect through Boruto's body, rather make their respective thoughts available to one another against their willBoruto chapter 75, page 38 and allow Boruto temporary access to Momoshiki's foresight.Boruto chapter 75, pages 39-40

From becoming a complete Ōtsutsuki, Boruto believed he could now better control Momoshiki's power,Boruto chapter 68, page 5 as his base form's physical prowess became further enhanced.Boruto chapter 78, pages 15-16Boruto chapter 79, pages 31-34 Though, a year after leaving Konoha, further usage of the Kāma resumed the process of Momoshiki taking over his body, prompting Boruto from using it since.Boruto Two Blue Vortex chapter 25, pages 39-40 Sometime after, Boruto gains access to the Ōtsutsuki ability to fly.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 6 He later demonstrates the ability to make contact with Momoshiki's spirit. Eventually, in desperation to stop the Human God Trees, Boruto formed an agreement with Momoshiki, gaining full control of the Kāma's power and all of Momoshiki's abilities.Boruto Two Blue Vortex chapter 15, pages 33-34Boruto Two Blue Vortex chapter 28, pages 40-41 

 Dōjutsu 
 Jōgan 

At age 7, Boruto began to subconsciously unlock the Jōgan in his right eye, prompted by a prophetic dream imparted by Toneri Ōtsutsuki and the appearance of Nue. Originally, the eye was only instinctively activated at times of great threats, otherwise remaining dormant. Later however, by age 16, he was able to activate it at will. This dōjutsu grants him the ability to detect things generally unseen by a normal eye. It can perceive the flow of chakra, enabling Boruto to see the visible changes in one's chakra and likewise track a target through its chakra. It has heightened analytical powers, being able to uncover and thoroughly comprehend hidden details to better react to and counter the opponent's next move.Boruto, episode 65 It can also determine the chakra pathway system including key points like its tenketsu, and see through the invisible barriers that connect dimensions. It can access Space–Time Ninjutsu, able to generate portals to different dimensions.Boruto episode 14 Uniquely, despite the damage to his right eye, while activating this dōjutsu, his eye apparently becomes fully-restored, and able to see with and still uses its powers.

 Byakugan 

While a direct descendant of the Hyūga Clan through his mother, he was not born with any known traits of the Byakugan. Despite this, he was noted to have the potential to awaken it. Later, from gaining  the Kāma of Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki, Boruto's right eye would eventually manifest Momoshiki's Byakugan. While originally unable to access this power, after convincing Momoshiki to loan Boruto his aid, Boruto became able to access this power at will. During which, Boruto's right eye provides him near 360° field of vision (except for a small blind spot at the upper thoracic vertebrae), x-ray vision, the ability to see through solid surfaces, across great distances, clearly perceiving the chakra pathway system, and can locate the tenketsu's chakra. This gives Boruto enhanced aim and precision on his attacks. Momoshiki's Byakugan also provides Boruto fragmented visions of the future surrounding himself. 

 Intelligence 
Despite his carefree nature and preference to a direct approach in battle, Boruto is a very keen-minded individual. Adept at various intricate misdirection and feints, he is noted to excel at outwitting physically superior opponents with a systematic approach,Boruto episode 50  even against famed and veteran jōnin like Ao with decades of experience and powerful cybernetic weapons.Boruto chapter 22 He quickly reading the situation and adapting to it, he can exploit flaws and weaknesses in both himself and other targets as key focuses in his plans. He is also effective in employing others' abilities in creating a strategy, making the most out of his allies' skills. Not unlike his father, he shows noticeable ingenuity with his techniques, like the shadow clones, for complex tactics. He is also shown to be able to flawlessly solve advanced problems through his own methods, noted as having a knack for it. In the Academy, Boruto is noticeably ahead of most of his peers, as his personal knowledge made him the only student to pass the written test of the graduation exams without cheating, getting a perfect score.

 New Era: Part I 
 Academy Entrance Arc 

In the anime, Boruto came across Denki Kaminarimon who was being bullied by some kids. After rescuing him, they become friends and insist that Denki stands up to his father for being forced to join the Academy against his will. The next day on route to begin his studies at the Academy, Boruto unknowingly awakens his dōjutsu and notices a dark shroud surrounding Denki. As he follows him onto a Thunder Rail carriage, Boruto stops Denki from taking revenge on the bullies from the previous day and divert the carriage from crashing. Boruto and Denki then depart with the bullies and take the carriage to the Academy's entrance ceremony, where they manage to crash it into his father's stone face, leading to him receiving a two-week suspension. For the next two weeks, Boruto is home-schooled by Hinata. After returning to the Academy, he is placed in Shino Aburame's homeroom, and introduces himself to his classmates, to which they begin talking negatively about him for being under the impression Boruto gets special treatment for being the Hokage's son. He soon met Iwabee, who views Boruto negatively. Through the heated encounter, the two decide to fight each-other in a match. Upon barely defeating Iwabee within the rules he set in place, his classmates view Boruto differently than they did initially.

Later, when Boruto's recklessness caused some property damage, Shino decided to have Boruto and other students help repair to the Hokage Rock. The following day, Boruto, along with Inojin and Shikadai found Metal Lee, who was acting unusually aggressive. Boruto's dōjutsu activated, noticing the same dark chakra surrounding Lee that Denki had. With a group effort, they were able to subdue Lee long enough for the dark chakra to leave him. After apologising to Lee for the other day and applauding his remarkable combat skills, the group became much closer. Later, concerned about how only he could see the dark chakra, he asked Hinata more about the Byakugan. Later, while the students began learning about the Summoning Technique, Boruto caused tension between the girls and boys of his class, leading to Shino organising a race to capture a flag between the two groups. In the climax of it, Boruto attempted to use the Summoning Technique, leading to the Ghost being summoned. As it began causing havoc, Konohamaru Sarutobi subdues the beast. Afterwards, the girls win the competition and make peace with the boys.

On another day, Boruto met the new transfer student Mitsuki, who he found strange. After his welcoming party, Boruto alongside other students subdue a construction worker at the academy who was being possessed. Boruto, Mitsuki and Shikadai Nara. were later called to the training field by Shino for an extracurricular class. Once their teacher appeared, Boruto noticed he was being possessed. As the students were being attacked by their teacher, they came up with a plan to subdue him. Once they defeated him, Shino ends up rescuing Mitsuki and Boruto who were on the verge of drowning in their attempt to defeat Shino. Later, as Shino voiced his decision to resign as teacher despite being possessed, the students convinced him to reconsider, apologising for their earlier statements.

Later, growing concerned about this repeated and seemingly random attacks, Boruto and Shikadai begin discussing, trying to figure out the source behind them and why apparently only Boruto could see it. Later, they along with Mitsuki find several of the girls confronting Magire Kakuremino, a shy boy that is a student from a different class. As the boy was stalking Sumire lately, Chōchō insisted that he be more forward with his feelings. When Magire meekly asks her out, Sumire turned him down, leaving him distraught and running away in shame. The following day, various creepy messages are left for Sumire. While Boruto and the others decide to watch over her, they are systematically separated from Sumire. Eventually, the perpetrator is revealed to be a possessed Magire, who kidnaps Sumire. Boruto and the others soon find them, where Magire quickly attacked them with his concealment skills. Eventually, Chōchō was able to reach Magire, noting that such an indecisive nature will never win anyone over. Accepting the fact that his methods of trying to make Sumire like him were in poor taste, the Ghost was rejected from Magire. As Magire began to apologise for his actions, he fainted which was the result of severe chakra drain caused from his possession.

Later, as Boruto continued to wonder about the nature of his shadow spectre attacking everyone and why only he could see it, he ultimately fell asleep. While dreaming, he was approached by Toneri Ōtsutsuki, who warned him of an impending danger and that Boruto's eye is the key to stopping it. Upon waking up and seeing his dōjutsu for a moment in a reflection, Boruto became overjoyed at the prospect of being a great hero. He began acting like the action movie hero Kagemasa. When his family approached him about his new attitude, he insisted that he had finally manifested his Byakugan. Naruto noted that it was very unlikely since Boruto had no prior training for it. However, admitting that Himawari did achieve such a feat prior, they decided to talk to Hiashi about this. Upon arriving at his grandfather's home, the doting grandfather quickly smothered his grandchildren in hugs, which was quickly repeated by their equally doting aunt Hanabi. As Himawari played with Hanabi, Boruto and Naruto explained the nature of their visit. After Hiashi gave a similar explanation to Naruto's about the unlikeliness of Boruto's powers being the Byakugan, he decided to test his grandson with a sparring match.

Hanabi then stepped in, insisting to spar Boruto herself, which was agreed. Quickly, the heiress showed her might, easily overwhelming Boruto and countering all his assaults and tactics. Hanabi began mocking Boruto into revealing his speculated Byakugan. While Boruto's performance forced Hanabi to fight more seriously, he was ultimately defeated soundly. This led everyone, including Boruto to sadly conclude that he in fact did not awaken his Byakugan. Afterwards, it was decided for Boruto and his family to stay the night. After dinner, Boruto began pouting alone, wondering if his dream from earlier was meaningless. Hanabi then approached him, seeing how down he was. Realising that Boruto's goals weren't just about proving himself to his father, but also a personal problem, she insisted that Boruto continue trying to figure out on his own and only ask for help after he tried his hardest.

Deciding to get some air, Boruto wandered into the village, where he bumped into Sarada. Suddenly, Boruto's eye activated again, noticing someone with the dark shadow again. He decided to follow, discovering that it was Kagemasa, the famous movie star. Much to Boruto's shock, the celebrity had become very fat. Kagemasa began attacking Boruto, take his frustrations out on the fact that his movie series was going to be cancelled because of his increased weight and poor dieting. As Kagemasa pinned Boruto down, he was saved by Sarada. As Boruto explained the situation, while she didn't fully believe the story, she did trust that Boruto wasn't lying. Following Boruto's plan, Sarada launched a shuriken assault on Kagemasa. Knowing that the movie star would dodge, Boruto disguised himself as one of the shuriken, letting him get close enough to knock out Kagemasa, purging the Ghost. The following day, after hearing that Kagemasa was getting back in shape and saving his movie series, a proud Boruto got over not having the Byakugan, determined to figure out the truth about his eye.

After learning that his father was beginning an investigation of his own on the random attacks, Boruto became determined to figure out the truth behind the shadow, which Boruto decided to call the "Ghost", before Naruto. Alongside Mitsuki and Shikadai, they even resorted to skipping classes with a faked excuse. Due to Mitsuki's poorly written excuse, Boruto was quickly found out and confronted by his visibly angry mother. The following day, Boruto was scolded by both Hinata and Shino, the latter of which decided Boruto would have to take after-school classes to make up the lost time. Later, Shino assigned his class to tail other workplaces to better understand non-shinobi life. Seeing Boruto's desire to continue patrolling the village, he subtly convinced Boruto, Shikadai, and Mitsuki to try the postal service. While sorting stamps, they heard on the news that another attack happened at the water purification plant, where Sumire was. Boruto and his friend quickly rushed to her aid.

After learning that Sumire was okay, Boruto and his friends were approached by Naruto. Realising that the children were conducting their own investigation on the attacks, the Hokage decided to show them what became of people who were possessed by the Ghost for prolonged periods, requiring intensive care from near-complete chakra depletion. While Naruto insisted they stay out of this matter, Shino appeared, insisting that Naruto not underestimate his students after seeing what they were capable of, and Naruto agrees to leave the matter to Shino. As Boruto and his friends continued their post work and tried to find the Ghost, they soon learned that the creature was intentionally attacking in areas far away from Boruto as he is the only one who could see it, from which Shikadai deduced that they were being spied on. Deciding to get help from their classmates to better patrol the village, they left the post office, anticipating that the culprit controlling the Ghost would go after the post chief Komame. Half the team went after the retreating masked culprit while Boruto and his half stayed to subdue the possessed Komame. While saving the post chief, the Ghost and the culprit ultimately got away.

As classes continued, Mitsuki continued to show noticeable interest in Boruto, ultimately asking if he can join him for dinner at his house, which he agreed to. On that night, Boruto was surprised to learn that Naruto would actually be joining them for dinner for a change. However, as dinner began, Naruto learned that a strange chakra was being dispersed throughout the village, prompting him to leave. Boruto was furious at this, seeing his father leave at the slightest notices. Seeing Naruto's duties as Hokage as someone who would sacrifice those closest to him for the sake of the entire village, he was determined to stop the Ghost before Naruto to prove his father wrong on his methods. Mitsuki then revealed he knew who the culprit was. Mitsuki claimed that it was Sumire. While Boruto rebuffed such a claim, he explained the nature of his investigation. Suddenly, there was a large earthquake, followed by the emergence of the Ghost, now in a tangible form, which attacked the village. Boruto quickly rushed off to help. Mitsuki told Boruto that they can stop the creature if they kill the summoner. Boruto refused to kill his friend, prompting Mitsuki to restrain him with a snake clone, which he defeats after Mitsuki leaves.

When he finds Mitsuki, he stops him by clashing with Sumire. She proclaimed that the girl they knew never existed. As Boruto's Dōjutsu actives, Nue arrives from a portal and takes Sumire into its dimension, leading to Boruto and Mitsuki following her. Inside, Boruto began looking for Sumire, only to be attacked by Nue. As his right eye realised the weak point the creature, Boruto and Mitsuki manage to immobilise it, leading to Sumire stepping in to defend it. Talking her out of revenge, Boruto comments that Nue won't blow them all up as it viewed Sumire as its parent. Letting go of her anger, the Gozu Tennō is weakened, leading to the dimension they reside in to begin crumbling. Boruto reached for Sumire and convinced her to join in escaping. When they arrive back in Konoha, Sumire is taken into custody by Sai Yamanaka. Before leaving, Boruto informs Sumire that Nue had survived.

Sometime later, Boruto realised that his eye's power had seemingly disappeared completely. Later, Shino decided to change up the 3-man teams for their next challenge to determine the optimum pairings for graduation. Mitsuki insisted on staying on Boruto's team and also teamed-up with Lee. As rumours about Sumire's fate began to spread, Boruto confronted his father about it. Naruto insisted that while he has to think about the whole village and he does not have absolute say, he will help Sumire. The following day during the team challenge to capture a flag, Mitsuki and Boruto's teamwork managed to win their match. Afterwards, to everyone's joy, Sumire returned to the class.

 Sarada Uchiha Arc 

In the anime, Boruto took care of Himawari when she became ill. After arguing with Naruto about Himawari's dinner, the two are kicked out of the house by Hinata. Naruto heard Boruto's stomach grumbling, leading to Naruto buying them dinner at Ramen Ichiraku. When the classes at the Academy were dismissed early due to the Five Kage Summit taking place in Konoha, Boruto tried to convince his classmates to help him pull a prank, believing it to be a successful prank despite all the security would be a testament to their abilities. They all refused, so he instead defaced the Hokage Rock by himself. He was stopped by Naruto, who ordered Boruto to clean up the graffiti, which Boruto suggested they do together. Naruto, however, reminded him that as Hokage the entire village is like his family and as such, he couldn't always make time for his children; asking that Boruto endure the hardship of their frequent separation.

As their graduation from the Academy approached, Boruto and his classmates trained with their parents to prepare them for their final exams. Naruto sent one of his shadow clones to train with Boruto and the two spar. Having not had the opportunity to do this with his dad in quite some time, Boruto tried very hard to elude capture so as to prolong their time together. Because Naruto had other responsibilities that he needed to focus on, his adviser, Shikamaru Nara, caught Boruto with his Shadow Imitation Technique so as to bring the game to an end.

Naruto left the village on a mission shortly afterwards. Boruto is sent by his mother to see Naruto off and deliver lunch to him, but when he arrived, he found that Naruto had already left. Annoyed, Boruto decided to go home despite Mitsuki's observation that they could still catch up to Naruto. At this suggestion, Sarada and Chōchō Akimichi suddenly appeared and offered to deliver the lunch for him. Boruto reluctantly agreed. When they finally returned, Boruto thanked Sarada for what she did. She insisted that she should be thanking him, as she got a lot out of the experience and now decided that she wanted to be Hokage; Boruto, however, scoffed at the idea.

 School Trip Arc 

Boruto is appointed class leader for his homeroom's class field trip to the Land of Water, much to his annoyance. Upon arriving in Kirigakure, they are met by their village guide Kagura Karatachi. Upon personally introducing himself to Boruto, Kagura escorted the class into the village, where the class is amazed by the scenery. Boruto noticed Iwabee wandering off into a back alley, leading to Boruto and Denki pursuing him. There, the three are confronted by Hassaku Onomichi, who Boruto engages into a fight with. The skirmish is stopped by Shizuma Hoshigaki, who applauded Boruto and Iwabee for having guts before walking off with Hassaku. Later, the class met Mei Terumī and Chōjūrō, who welcomed them to their village. Afterwards, the class continued their tour to the Kirigakure Academy, where Chōjūrō organised Boruto to fight Kagura in kenjutsu. Upon starting, Boruto is swiftly disarmed and defeated. Shortly after, Kagura took the class to Memorial Park, where they payed their respects at the Memorial Stone.

Afterwards, Kagura talks to Boruto and his classmates about the history of the "Bloody Mist Village" and the Fourth Mizukage, before Tsurushi Hachiya's group approaches them. Realising Boruto is the Hokage's son, Tsurushi attempts to attack Boruto, but Kagura and Iwabee fended him off, leading to him retreating with his friends. During the night, Boruto's classmates receive a message that Denki had been kidnapped, and tells them to come to Pier Number 4 if they want him back. Arriving at the pier with a few of his classmates and Kagura, Tsurushi reveals himself as the culprit, as erects a barrier around them all before having his group attack the students. After defeating the Kiri shinobi and returning to their hotel, Boruto invites Kagura to play a card game with him and his friends. While Kagura enjoys the game, he continues to lament about his past. Boruto however insists that he can't let his family ties define him, as Boruto could relate to being compared to father and grandfather. As a sign of friendship, Boruto decides to give Kagura his playing cards.

The next day, Kagura calls Boruto to meet him at the Academy, where he finds Kagura training with Hiramekarei and says the village will be in good hands. Their conversation is interrupted when Shizuma captures the pair with water, who insists now is the time to start a revolution in Kiri. Rejecting Shizuma's words, Boruto unsuccessfully attacks him, leading to Shizuma has his peers reveal themselves and overwhelm Boruto. In his weakened state, Shizuma attempts to persuade Kagura to kill Boruto, but Kagura protects him at the cost of joining the group. Failing to stop him going, passes out. Later, Boruto awakens to Sarada beside him, who found him and applied first aid. Hachiya approaches the two and reveals Shizuma's intentions and how Kagura was in debt to him, leading to Boruto becoming determined to save Kagura. After Mei and Chōjūrō become aware that the New Seven Ninja Swordsmen stole the village's Seven Ninja swords, Boruto and Sarada approach Mei and Chōjūrō, and explain that Kagura actions are due to Shizuma exploiting his weakness. Boruto insists that to treat the recent incident as a children's fight, leading to Chōjūrō allowing the two students accompanying him in stopping the swordsmen.

As the swordsmen attempted to destroy Kiri's Memorial Stone, Boruto stopped them, leading to Shizuma erecting a mist barrier around the surrounding area and separating the three. Boruto then found himself fighting against Kagura, desperate trying to reason with him. As Boruto continued to point out Kagura's reluctance to join this rebellion during their clash, Mitsuki arrived, revealing proof of Shizuma' lies. He revealed that Shizuma and his followers not only conspired with the Land of Waves, but also killing various people in Kirigakure who learned of his plans and refused to help him. When Shizuma took the allegations in stride, proud of his actions, he decided to finish the battle personally when Kagura refused to fight. He unleashed a blood mist that enabled him to absorb enemy's chakra through their open wounds. Boruto and Mitsuki's coordinated tag-team enabled them to over-power the foe. Refusing to accept defeat, Shizuma reclaimed Samehada, backfiring on him as his inexperience allowed Samehada to overwhelm him into a feral state. When Kagura wanted to make things right but was too exhausted, Boruto joined him, taking up half of Hiramekarei and together were able to defeat their foe. The Konoha-nin then quickly ran back to their hotel to make curfew.

Some after the incident, the class depart Kiri by boat, leading to Boruto wondering why Kagura didn't see them off. Upon returning to Konoha, Hinata reminds Boruto that he hadn't brought back a souvenir for Himawari as he promised. Unable to bring himself to tell his sister, Boruto lies and says he misplaced her souvenir of Kirigakure Water Cinnamon Sweets, which he begins looking to get in the village. Upon retrieving them, he received a letter from Kagura which explained his situation. Taking from Kagura's boldness at confronting his mistakes, Boruto decided to both give his gift and admit his mistake to Himawari, which she accepted.

 Graduation Exams Arc 

As his class began preparing for graduation, Boruto was interviewed by Shino about his future goals as a ninja. Boruto however admitted that he never really considered what he wanted. Later, Boruto was met by a freelance reporter named "Sukea", who said he was doing an article on the graduating students. As Boruto aided the older ninja in interviewing the other students, Boruto was left amazed at how others already had thought so far ahead in their goals, even learning that some students planned to continue their studies in the Academy to pursue careers outside ninja work. Boruto admitted to Sukea that his original goal on becoming a ninja was just to prove himself better than his father, but otherwise had no goal. Sukea assured Boruto that there is no shame in going through a period of carefree, but one should always plan ahead if they want to grow as people. Inspired by the man's words, Boruto decided for his immediate goal was to make sure he and his friends stayed close. During the Genin Exams, Boruto easily passed the written test. Later, during the practical and final test, the class was brought to the training field. There, the entire class was set up to face Shino, Anko Mitarashi, Konohamaru and Kakashi Hatake for 24 hours. As the exam started, Boruto chose to stick with his friends as they worked to get passed the teachers and reach Kakashi. Confronting the retired Hokage, Boruto was quickly subdued by Kakashi. He then lectured the student about lacking a resolve and that his influence on his class has led them to become unmotivated and ignorant on what it means to be a ninja. While Boruto insisted that Kakashi didn't know anything about him, the Kage revealed that he was Sukea.

As Boruto continued to struggle free from the Sixth's hold, his fellow classmates provided enough distraction for him to escape. Later, while Wasabi treated his wounds, Boruto voiced his dismay at Kakashi's words. While Boruto apologised for being a bad influence, his friends strongly insisted that Kakashi was wrong; that Boruto has helped them all come so far despite their own personal problems. Convinced that they would still prove Kakashi wrong, the group realised the true nature of the test. Boruto then designed a plan for everyone to both save their captured team-mates and get the bell. After succeeding in the first part, the group went to face Kakashi. As Kakashi continued to disparage Boruto, the boy refused to give up, teaming up with his class-mates to attack. Kakashi easily repelled their assault, noting that they were still too scattered, but was then caught in a group-String Light Formation. As Boruto struggled against the restrain Hokage to get the bell, time finally ran out. Despite the plan failing, Kakashi passed everyone, noting that they succeeded in the true goal of the test: team-work and loyalty. Shino then revealed that everyone's headbands were in fact Konoha forehead protectors, proof of their full-fledged status. Soon after Boruto was assigned to Team 3 with Mitsuki and Sarada with their squad leader being Konohamaru. Soon with unanimous decision they pleaded to the Hokage so their squad be changed to Team 7 instead of Team 3, a request Naruto granted.

 Genin Mission Arc 

Naruto present Team 7 their first mission which involved aiding Green Banks against bandits. Upon arriving, the team learned that the bandits were actually ninja, resulting in Konohamaru questioning if they should continue the mission as it was probably too difficult for genin to face trained shinobi. While Konohamaru discussed the matter with Kiri, the village is attacked by Ashimaru, leading to Boruto engaging him until Konohamaru fends off the assailant before retreating. Kiri explained that the shinobi were attacking the village to pressure her into handing them the deed to the village's bridge. During the night, Team 7 discovered several villagers were being controlled by genjutsu and subdued them. Discovering Kiri was abducted during the incident, Team 7 met with the perpetrators to exchange for the deed for her. After the exchange occurred, Hidari and Ashimaru decide on killing them all, prompting Konohamaru to task the genin in fleeing with Kiri. Pursued by Ashimaru, the genin engaged the missing-nin and defeated him using Boruto Stream with Mitsuki and Sarada. Completing the mission and returning to Konoha, Boruto inquired into how his peers during first missions and bragged about facing shinobi.

 Byakuya Gang Arc 

After Boruto talked a would-be terrorist into giving up during a team mission at the Konoha Bank, they discovered it's vault was robbed during the distraction, which Sarada deduced was accomplished using Ice Release. From meeting with Katasuke Tōno, the genin realised where the vault's goods were being sold. Donning a disguise with Mitsuki, Boruto pretended to be interested in buying the stolen jewel. Attempting to apprehend the seller, their plans fails, leading to the thief retreating. Pursuing him, he leads them to a village, where he said he had already sold the stolen gold and used the money to repair the village's water distributing system. Before retreating, the thief explains that his group are noble in their actions, unlike the rich who profit off the poor, leading to Boruto wondering who was really in the wrong.

With the continued thefts performed by the Byakuya Gang throughout Konoha, Team 7 and other genin teams were assigned to help stop the thieves only when accompanied by a higher-ranked shinobi. During the afternoon, Boruto found Shikadai playing shōgi with Ryōgi and showed him the limit edition game Katasuke gave him. Questioning if he and Ryōgi had met before, Ryōgi suggested it was someone else before leaving. Shortly later, the pair are confronted by a Byakuya Gang member who was being pursued by Temari. Requesting for the two's assistance, Boruto attacked with his clones followed by Temari repelling the thief out sight, resulting in them escaping. 

When protesters began accusing the Kaminarimon Company of corrupt practises, Boruto suspects that the Byakuya Gang is behind it. That night, the newly graduated genin teams are given section assignments in regards to handling the protesters by Kōtarō Fūma before departing. While Team 7 is stationed in their position, Boruto noticed Team 10 breaking formation, leading to him investigating the matter. Learning that Shikadai believed the Ninjutsu Research Centre is the Byakuya Gang's real target, the four hurried to the building, where they discovered the thieves had stolen Katasuke's Magnum Opus. Tracking them using Katasuke's scientific tool, the groups splits, during which Boruto followed Shikadai who chased after Gekkō and another member. Confronting the thieves on the Thunder Train they jumped on, the genin are trapped and Boruto placed under genjutsu. Thinking Shikadai is an enemy, they fought until Shikadai released the genjutsu. While Shikadai handled Ryōgi, Boruto attempted to apprehend Gekkō, but was pushed away and watched Gekkō detach the train carriages to escape. Assisting Shikadai, the two free Ryōgi from Gekkō's genjutsu. After Naruto captured Gekkō, Boruto returned the Magnum Opus to Katasuke.

 Naruto Shinden: Parent and Child Day 

When Konohagakure started a new annual holiday, Parent and Child Day, Boruto decided to pass on it. Instead, he decided to go train while letting Himawari spend the day with their father. When watching a parent-child food competition that pitted Chōji and Chōchō against outsiders, Boruto soon realised that the promoters of the competition were rigging the match against the Akimichi in fear of them winning the free-food prize. Boruto stepped into make sure the competition continued fairly. Later, he found to his surprise that Sasuke had returned to the village. He explained the situation of the new holiday and decided to back off on training with Sarada so she could enjoy the holiday with her travelling father. Later, after learning that Sarada was getting embarrassed and annoyed by Sasuke's naive attempts to bond with her, Boruto pointed that neither of them really know much about the other, but rather should just enjoy the time together. Ultimately, Boruto's advice helped the Uchiha duo reconnect and in gratitude, Sarada told Boruto his own advice of just being more casual with his own father. That night, Boruto received a custom shuriken as a present from Naruto and the two decided to train together for the remainder of the evening.

 Versus Momoshiki Arc 

In the anime, after completing a bodyguard mission, Boruto becomes frustrated as a pair of shinobi judge him for being the Hokage's son. Recalling that Naruto didn't turn up for his birthday party, he headed to the Ninjutsu Research Centre where Katasuke gave him a late birthday present. Returning home, Boruto promises Himawari that he'll make sure that Naruto comes home for her upcoming birthday. When the team gets their next mission, Konohamaru debriefs it before preparing to depart in a hour. While waiting, Boruto encounters Naruto, leading to him apologising for not coming home for his birthday the other day. Stating he doesn't care, Boruto made Naruto promise that he'll be home for Himawari's. Travelling to their destination by train, the team is informed one of the robbers they were hired to capture was already imprisoned in the village. Learning that the criminals associates were all killed in the nearby mine, Team 7 ventured in to investigate, during which they are attacked by a White Zetsu. Using Konohamaru's strategy, the team eliminate the Zetsu. Going deeper into the Ōtsutsuki clan ruins, they discovered White Zetsu's decomposing, as well as a group of deceased Zetsu on fire, prompting Konohamaru into telling them this was the act of Sasuke. After Naruto was informed of the news, Konohamaru discussed the discovery with his clone, which annoyed Boruto that they were being left in the dark about the matter.

Several months after graduating, during a mission to catch a rampaging bear, Konohamaru tested his Kote. Boruto is very intrigued by the device. While later reporting the bear's successful capture to Naruto, Boruto brags that he could have completed the mission on his own. Naruto tried lecturing him on the importance of teamwork, which Boruto felt he has no right to do since they never spent time together. Rather than continue the argument, Boruto reminded Naruto that it was Himawari's birthday and warned him not to forget it before storming out. Sarada and Mitsuki track Boruto to a restaurant to give him an application for the next Chūnin Exams, which Konohamaru thinks they should enter. Boruto is uninterested despite the fact that they must all enter as a team and resumes playing his video game with Shikadai and Inojin, before running into Hinata and Himawari and returning home to celebrate his sister's birthday. Their celebration is cut short when Naruto's Shadow Clone disappeared, enraging Boruto that his father couldn't bother to come to Himawari's birthday.

When he heard a knock on the front door, he opened it and swung a punch believing it was his father, but instead was Sasuke, who intercepted the attack. Looking for Naruto, Sasuke leaves. Shortly after, Boruto approaches him and asks for Sasuke to make him his student, which Sasuke accepts on the condition Boruto learned the Rasengan. Afterwards, Boruto went to Konohamaru's home and asked him to teach him the Rasengan, which Konohamaru eagerly agrees to. They started training the next day. He eventually learned to create a Rasengan on his own after several days of arduous training. He demonstrated it to Sasuke, who noted how small his Rasengan was. Boruto wrongly assumed this meant that Sasuke rejected him, so he borrowed the Kote from its inventor: Katasuke, so that he can instantly create normal-sized Rasengan. Boruto demonstrated "his" Rasengan to Sasuke again. Although Sasuke noticed the Kote, he said nothing and agrees to train Boruto, during which he learns shurikenjutsu and his father's background. After their training and wishing to stand out in the Chūnin Exams, Boruto was persuaded by Katsuke to illegally use a Kote during the matches.

On the day of the exams' first stage, the competing teams are given a true or false question. When Boruto and his team select their answer they are dumped into a pit, which Boruto, assuming this means they've failed, makes no effort to save himself from. Sarada and Mitsuki prevent him from falling into the ink at the bottom of the pit, which is the first stage's true objective and thus permits them to continue to the second stage. Naruto sends Boruto a congratulatory email when he hears the news; Boruto is upset that Naruto didn't send at least a shadow clone instead. Three days later during the second stage sometime later, the teams compete against each other in games of capture the flag. While Sarada and Mitsuki go off to capture the opposing team's flag, Boruto defends their own, believing he and his four shadow clones give him an advantage over the other team's three members. When the Three Senka Brothers make two shadow clones each, Boruto is quickly outnumbered and his flag is nearly captured. While initially reluctant, he eventually uses the Kote to perform a combination of elemental attacks to defeat them, allowing Boruto's team to continue to the finals. While Boruto recuperates at home later, Naruto visits him in person to state his pride in him and encourage him not to lose to Shikadai; Boruto remarks afterwards that Naruto's brief words could have been put in an email, but he is nevertheless moved to tears by his father coming to see him.

On the day of the final exam, the competing genin are scheduled in a series of one-on-one tournament matches, with Boruto facing Yurui. Unable to engage him, Boruto used his Kote to defeat Yurui. Afterwards, Boruto faced Shikadai, where after being caught by his shadow, he relied on using his Kote to pressure Shikadai into surrendering. While in the manga Naruto noticed Boruto cheating and subsequently disqualified him from the tournament, in the anime his cheating goes unnoticed, leading to him progressing to the finals against Sarada and Shinki. During the match, though he teamed up with Sarada against Shinki, their opponent managed to defeat Sarada, before Boruto relied on using his Kote to overpower Shinki's Iron Sand to win. Noticing Boruto's use of the tool, Naruto disqualified Boruto from the tournament and from being a ninja.

Lashing out at his father for his actions, the venue was attacked by Momoshiki and Kinshiki Ōtsutsuki in their search for Naruto. Attacking Momoshiki in a panic with his Kote, all his techniques are absorbed, before Naruto returned to save him and regroup with Sarada and Sasuke. Momoshiki then launched a barrage of elemental techniques towards the group, which Naruto blocked with Kurama's assistance. Naruto instructed Sasuke to focus on protecting Boruto and Sarada while he engaged Momoshiki, during which Boruto calls out to him before losing consciousness from Momoshiki's large scale attack. Waking up in hospital, he learned that Naruto was captured, and runs to the Hokage's Office, where he puts on his father's old jacket and feels guilty for his attitude towards him. He is then approached by Sasuke, who invited Boruto to rescue his father. Accompanied with the Four Kage, the group departed through Sasuke's portal.

Upon arriving on Momoshiki's Planet, the Kage free Naruto and engage Kinshiki and Momoshiki. On seeing Boruto, Naruto tries to apologise for not being around more, but Boruto replies that it's okay, although he asks that Naruto start telling him about when he was younger instead of lecturing him. Naruto joins the battle and Momoshiki, despite absorbing Kinshiki to try and gain the upperhand, is defeated. However, Katasuke arrives to lend assistance and attacks Momoshiki with the Kote, only to inadvertently rejuvenate him and allow him to capture the Kage. With encouragement from Sasuke, Boruto attacks Momoshiki with his small Rasengan, which forces him to release the Kage. Naruto is impressed that Boruto was able to learn the Rasengan and, still unable to move, adds his own chakra to Boruto's Rasengan, making it gigantic. Sasuke helps Boruto get a shadow clone close enough to Momoshiki to blind his Rinnegan with a kunai, preventing him from absorbing Boruto's Rasengan and thus leaving him unable to dodge it, killing Momoshiki. However, upon investigating the remains of the God Tree, Momoshiki reappears before Boruto, freezing time for everybody but himself and Boruto to give Boruto a cryptic warning that someone who defeats a god ceases to be a normal person, then makes a Kāma on his palm. When Momoshiki fades away into mist, time resumes for everyone and they return to Konoha.

In the anime, Boruto and Himawari shared a belated birthday dinner, with Naruto even appearing in person instead of sending a shadow clone. After Boruto punched Naruto, thinking it was a shadow clone, Naruto began scolding him, while Himawari asked for a piggy back ride. Hinata maintained order by threatening to throw the cake away. A few days later, Boruto's life sees many changes back home: he starts over with a non-hacked video game character, even though it makes the game more difficult; Naruto is home more often and Boruto is supportive of his gruelling work schedule; Boruto, despite being caught cheating in the Chūnin Exams, becomes a minor celebrity thanks to his role in helping with the previous crisis, doing the same kinds of interviews his father sometimes does. Boruto no longer has disdain for the Hokage title, though he still doesn't want to be Hokage. Instead, he decides to support Sarada in her dream of being Hokage, just as Sasuke supports Naruto. Mitsuki finds all the discussion about their parents interesting but insists that Naruto and Sasuke have nothing on his parent: Orochimaru. Sarada is at first shocked, and then ponders whether Orochimaru is Mitsuki's mother or father, while Boruto — becoming continuously more frustrated by Mitsuki and Sarada ignoring his question, demands to know who Orochimaru is. At some point, Boruto tells Sasuke about the seal on his palm, to which he warns Boruto to be on guard.

 Chōchō Arc 

In the anime, when the lead actors of a popular TV drama, Tomaru and Ashina received a death threat if they continued filming their show, Team 7 was assigned to protect the actors alongside Team 10. Boruto and his team were assigned to watch Ashina, who much to their chagrin was a prima donna who basically made the team act as her personal servants. Later, a masked attacker managed to capture Tomaru. A ransom was left that demanded 20 million ryō and for Ashina to be the one to deliver it. Shikadai and Boruto noted that this situation was no making sense as the attacker suddenly changed tactics form murder to ransom. During the exchange, as Konohamaru already captured the attacker and disguised himself as the Ame-nin, Ashina was revealed to be the mastermind behind the assaults as she desperately wanted to rekindle her fame as an actress. In a last blind effort to keep her fame by burying the truth, she attempted to blow up the area. While Konohomaru stopped her from using them, the explosive tags went off, causing a landslide, which the Konoha-nin quickly saved the spectators from. Afterwards, Ashina was arrested.

 Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc 

In the anime, during another Kage Summit in Konoha, Team 7 encountered Ōnoki, who they guided around the village on a tour. Afterwards, the Kage informed the genin what the hardest stone was. The next day, all missions were suspended due to an attack at the villages gate, which Boruto and Sarada eventually learned involved Mitsuki, who was being branded as a traitor, as well as him being the son of Orochimaru. Not believing his teammate was a traitor, Boruto ventured to where the attack took place, during which he found one of Mitsuki's snakes that said his actions were his own will. Despite the village being in lock down, Boruto and Sarada decided to go to Orochimaru's laboratory with the snake for answers. Upon arriving, he learned that Mitsuki was one of many clones, before meeting Orochimaru. Boruto showed Orochimaru the snake Mitsuki left behind in hopes of finding any hidden messages. Unable to extract information from it, he suggested they consult the White Snake Sage about the matter. On their to the Ryūchi Cave, they were blocked by Team 10. While managing to separate Moegi Kazamatsuri from her team, Boruto and Sarada were subdued by the genin. When Shikadai learned of Mitsuki's snake containing a message, he decided to aid the pair in their journey, followed by his teammates joining them. 

Upon the group arriving at a foggy canyon, three women orchestrated trials for Boruto to go through in order for the genin to gain entrance into Ryūchi Cave. Having passed, the group entered the cave and met the White Snake Sage, who agreed to analyse the snake if the shinobi brought her Garaga's Reverse Scale, which they agreed to. Soon after, the group were attacked by Garaga, prompting Aoda to come to Sarada's aid and allow the shinobi to escape. Afterwards, Aoda introduced itself to the shinobi, leading to them devising a plan to acquire the scale. After engaging the snake again, Boruto became connected with Garaga's mental plane, during which Garaga said he wished to see Boruto hopes to be crushed. Deciding not to take the scale, Boruto instead entered a summoning contract with the snake, on the condition that he could eat the shinobi if Mitsuki had betrayed Boruto. Returning to the sage, he presented the scale to her by summoning Garaga, prompting her to show Mitsuki's snake's memories to the shinobi. Learning that Mitsuki had actually saved Uō's life and that he was being accompanied to the Land of Earth, the shinobi depart the cave to find him.

As the group began to approach the Land of Earth's border, Shikadai had Inojin and Chōchō to return to the village to report their findings. As the other genin continued their pursuit, they found the remains of a clay creature, which Boruto recognised as the same thing that attacked Mitsuki's snake. Their group soon found a group of Konoha jōnin who were defeated by one of the gate attackers, Kokuyō. The man quickly revealed himself to be an artificial being with superhumanly augmented abilities. As the genin were quickly pressured by him, Inojin and Chōchō arrived to help. The Ino-Shika-Chō trio decided to hold him off as Boruto and Sarada went on ahead. They were intercepted by another one of the gate attacks, Sekiei, who noted that Mitsuki was with them willingly. He initially held them off with his Explosive Clay, until Boruto summoned Garaga, who initially refused to help until his might was questioned by Boruto. As Sekiei struggled to dodge Garaga's assault, his body suddenly gave out. While Boruto attempted to finish him off, Mitsuki appeared to save Sekiei. He made his intention to join the artificial humans clear as he subdued Boruto before departing. Soon afterwards, the Ino-Shika-Chō trio returned, and took care of Boruto while he was unconscious. Awakening, the group decided to venture Iwagakure and seek the help of Ōnoki.

Infiltrating the village, the genin were noticed by Akatsuchi and taken to Ōnoki, who was happy to see Boruto. Informing the elderly man of their goal to find Mitsuki, Ōnoki's attitude turned dark and turned them away. The shinobi found themselves surrounded by Akuta being controlled by Kū, who revealed himself to be in league in Ōnoki to everyone's shock. As Ōnoki began explaining the nature of his plans and his genuine desire to protect people, realising that with his secret out in the open, he would have to accelerate his plans before the other Great Shinobi Countries learned. While Ōnoki told his son to gently takes the prisoners away, Boruto and the others chose to resist, and a fight ensured, during which Boruto fled with Ōnoki after saving him from being crushed. Unknowingly venturing in the Sanzu Plains, the two became trapped until being joined by Sekki, who assisted the pair in escaping. After leaving Sekki, Ōnoki again talked about the true nobleness of his goals, saying he wants to save lives. Wanting to prove his point, he decided to take Boruto to the site where his grandson was killed. There, Ōnoki justified his plan to replace shinobi with Akuta, but Boruto rejected his envision.

Being discovered by Kakō, Boruto fought him, during which he was joined by Sarada and Chōchō. While on the verge of being killed, Kakō succumbed to his injuries and died. Afterwards, the shinobi are re-joined by Inojin under Kirara's genjutsu, who then takes Boruto hostage, forcing his group to be captured and taken back to Iwa. Discovering the village had been taken over by Kū, Ōnoki didn't agree with his creation, leading to Kū knocking the man unconscious. Shikadai appeared and helped his allies escape. As the Ino-Shika-Chō trio decided to face off against Kokuyō, Boruto and Sarada faced Kirara. Managing to flee and catching up with Mitsuki, the pair were immobilised by Kū and were shocked when Mitsuki betrayed him, forcing Kū to retreat to attend to his decaying body. Going after him while Mitsuki faced Sekiei, the pair faced Kirara and her giant Akuta. Summoning Garaga to destroy the golem, it collapsed on top of Kirara, leading to her being killed.

Regrouping with Mitsuki at the Old City, they discovered Kū who had successfully transplanted a human heart into himself to stabilise his body. Engaging him in battle, Boruto and Sarada became trapped under rubble, during which Sekki freed them. Afterwards, Boruto brought Ōnoki to Kū after the Kage had a change of heart and wished to stop his creation. Crippling Kū with his Rasengan, Kū attempted to kill the genin with his Dust Release, which prompted Ōnoki to intervene and sacrifice himself to kill their opponent. Afterwards, the genin approached the drained Tsuchikage, who spoke to them about the importance of keeping one's will strong before passing away. Team 7 was then found by their allies from Konoha and they all welcomed Mitsuki back. Returning home, Garaga contacted Boruto to inform him that their contract was up, and the two parted ways. The following day, Boruto and Sarada were punished for their technical desertion by having their shinobi status revoked. Mitsuki apologised for his recent actions and admitted to the shameless curiosity of wanting to connect with people that were more like him. Boruto however quickly accepted his apology and admitted he was glad that he got the chance to better understand Mitsuki as a person, hoping to learn more about each other, with Sarada also agreeing to it. Later, due to Kurotsuchi's gratitude and recommendation, it was decided that Team 7 genin's shinobi status would be restored.

 Jūgo Arc 

In the anime, some time later, Team 7 and the genin of Team 15 went on a mission to investigate attacks on a village from its wildlife. Accompanied by Tosaka, the group were attacked by birds and separated. Finding himself attacked by a monstrous man, Boruto was saved by Nue. Entering the village, the shinobi discovered victims of the attacks were sick and covered in juinjutsu, during which the villagers found an unconscious Jūgo. Questioning him, a sick villager went on a rampage and was swiftly subdued by Jūgo, who made the juinjutsu disappear and warned Boruto to stay away from the forest before fleeing into it. Entering it to investigate, the shinobi split up, and Boruto accompanied with Sarada discovered Jūgo transforming in a cave. Engaging in battle, Jūgo was repelled away by Konohamaru. After Konohamaru snapped Jūgo out of his blood-lust, Boruto and the others followed him until they found him passed out with an injection device. Jūgo woke up and they were attacked by another bird, but Jūgo removed the birds cursed seal before Boruto could attack it.

Back at the village, Boruto was among those tasked with monitoring Jūgo and looking out for more of the tranquilliser drug that suppresses the cursed seal. They watched as the strain of curing the birds caused him to transform, retreating to his cave. After the episode, Boruto refused to leave and continued investigating. When researchers from the Land of Rivers asked for information, Boruto lied and said they knew nothing. Boruto administered a tranquilliser dose on Jūgo during his next episode, his commitment to helping the birds earning his trust. Over the next couple days, the group continued working on the birds. Boruto spotted a domesticated goose among the wilds ones, and Tosaka commented on its species having lost the ability to fly. Despite having been convinced by Sarada to take his shots regularly to avoid transformations, Jūgo still retreated to his cave, as he was building up an immunity to the medication. Boruto and Sarada go over the remaining shots, and wondered their options once they ran out. On the third day, the group woke up with bird sounds, Tosaka telling Boruto the remaining infected birds transformed and escaped, Jūgo having gone after them.

They found Jūgo struggling to contain another transformation, but due to his shots being missing at his compound, Jūgo transformed and rampaged to the village. Subdued by the researchers, they revealed to the villages that the Konoha shinobi knew of Jūgo's identity, leading to them turning against them. Learning that Wasabi and Namida were unconscious and infected with cursed seals, they requested Tosaka to help them with his expertise. After the genin reluctantly left the village, they found Sumire after she was knocked out Suigetsu, who insisted he acted in self-defence. When learning Suigetsu and Karin were looking for Jūgo, the genin explained that Jūgo was apprehended by the researchers. When Sumire awoke, she explained that two assailants who captured Wasabi Izuno and Namida Suzumeno had special collars that let them harness cursed seals of their own. Realising that this duo was working with the Land of Rivers' researchers, they concluded that the outbreak must have been started by them.

As the group separated to handle parts of the rescue, Suigetsu joined Boruto in finding Jūgo. Locating Tosaka, he lead them to Jūgo, during which he subdued them with tranquillisers and revealed he was in league with the researchers and cursed seals operation. As Tosaka exposited his motivations and Boruto admonished him for his treatment of Jūgo, Jūgo broke free of his restraints and begged Boruto to flee. Pursuing Jūgo to the lake, Boruto attempted to attack a curse seal transformed Tosaka, but shrugged off his attack and restrained him. Jūgo defeated Tosaka and freed Boruto, leading to him targeting the genin. Saved by Nue, Boruto formulated a plan to revert Jūgo's transformation that relied on Jūgo's speed to increase the damage of his Rasengan. Boruto used two consecutive Boruto Streams to build up his own speed, and the damage only made Jūgo's transformation recede at the last instant. Mitsuki arrived with Konohamaru and Suigetsu, who consumed with serum to cure the birds and merged with the lake to rain it over them. Afterwards, Sarada admonished Boruto on the recklessness of his plan, who pointed out it worked, and the two wondered what would Jūgo do next.

 Konoha Shinden: Steam Ninja Scrolls 

In the anime, while joining Shikadai and Shikamaru for a meal, they encountered Mirai, who was getting ready for a mission to escort the Sixth Hokage and Might Guy. When they returned, Boruto was shocked to learn Mirai's mission ended up saving several girls from remnants of the near-forgotten Jashin cult. Later, after Shikadai was promoted to chūnin, Boruto was selected alongside Iwabee and Wasabi to join Shikadai on his first mission as team captain, which they completed.

 Konohamaru's Love Arc 

In the anime, Konohamaru and Boruto saw a woman running away from several men in the village, prompting Konohamaru to rescue her from them. Introducing herself as Remon Yoimura and a sightseer, Boruto showed her around the village, during which she and Konohamaru became fond of each other. Later, it was revealed that Remon was a noblewoman who was dodging her bodyguards and had the responsibility to return. The following day, after Sarada and Chōchō pointed out Konohamaru's growing feelings, Boruto suggested that he and his sensei return Remon's borrowed handkerchief as an excuse to see her again. Upon arriving at her mansion, they were surprised to see Remon preparing for a ceremony, and was uncharacteristically demanded to never see her again. They were approached by Remon's fiancé Kankitsu Akitsuki, who asked the pair to leave. Having found a lost girl from Daidai Village they returned the child home, during which they felt that something was wrong, and snuck back into Remon's home to talk with her. Learning about her village being plagued by a memory stealing spirit that her ancestor sealed away at the cost of her descendants being cursed, the pair were also informed that a special marriage ritual was needed to restore the weakened seal. Accepting that this was Remon's choice, Konohamaru decided to take Boruto back to Konoha. Before they could, Remon's caretaker Asaki asked the pair to investigate Kankitsu as he had recently begun acting out of character. Accepting the request, the two found nothing unusual.

While waiting for Asaki to show up to report to, Boruto discovered Asaki had lost her memory of their encounter. As she brushed him off, he followed Asaki who was following Kankitsu into a cave. There, Kankitsu was preparing to destroy Remon's hair clip only to be stopped by Asaki. Watching as a mysterious energy was emitted from Kankitsu, Boruto protected Asaki from this new threat, during which Asaki shielded Boruto from an attack and collapsed. Boruto soon found himself in a similar outcome, but while the hair clip suppressed some of the effects, Boruto forgot the last few days. Returning to Konoha, he was amazed to hear about Konohamaru being placed under house arrest after trespassing into a nearby village. As Boruto began experiencing recent things throughout the village, he ultimately regained his memories. He reported to Konohamaru that it was Kankitsu who was stealing people's memories. Despite the house arrest, Konohamaru joined Boruto in settling the matters. Upon returning to the village, Kankitsu who was possessed destroyed the seal to free Sōma. Unable to defeat the demon, Remon sealed it in herself at the cost of her memories. Konohamaru decided to leave Remon in Kankitsu care, despite Boruto insisting that he should tell Remon how he felt about her.

 One-Tail Escort Arc 

In the anime, as everyone had time off from missions, Boruto's family was preparing to go on a camping trip with Hinata's side of the family. Boruto however was growing bored and wished to resume training under his mentor Sasuke. When noticing Sasuke's hawk flying into the village, he sneaked into the Hokage's office building and discovered Sasuke was heading to the Land of Wind. Seeing this as an opportunity to meet up with him, Boruto lied to his family about being assigned a training mission before sneaking onto a train to the Land of Wind. There, he discovered Sasuke and Gaara fighting Urashiki, during which Sasuke transported to another dimension. Being prevented to engage Urashiki by Gaara, the Kazekage managed to temporally seal the Ōtsutsuki who was targeting Shukaku for its chakra.

Shukaku seals itself in a tea kettle in order to not be sensed, leading to Gaara entrusting Boruto alongside with Shinki and Kankurō with escorting the tailed beast to Konoha. Along the way, the three were intercepted by Urashiki's puppets, leading to Kankurō facing the threat alone while Boruto and Shinki went on ahead. Noticing an explosion where Kankurō was, Shinki insisted to head-on, while Boruto refused to leave Kankurō when he needed them most. Returning to the scene alone, he encountered Temari and Shikadai. They found evidence of a hole being dug as a means to escape the explosion, prompting the Konoha-nin to catch up with Shinki. When they did, they discovered he was facing a damaged puppet. While Temari and Shikadai held off the puppet, Boruto helped Shinki and Shukaku get to safety before returning to defeat the puppet. Afterwards, it was decided for Boruto to head on with Shinki while Temari tended to her wounds with Shikadai and resumed their search for Kankurō.

Knowing Urashiki would soon escape and intercept them again at the Land of Fire border, they decided Boruto would distract Urashiki with a clone disguised as Shinki and carrying an empty tea kettle while Shukaku and Shinki went on ahead. While distracting Urashiki for a period of time, the foe soon realised the truth and decided to take Boruto as a hostage for the Hokage. Shinki however decided to return to the battlefield to aid Boruto. As Boruto and Shinki struggled to fend off Urashiki, Boruto's Jōgan activated, leading to him being able to perceive Urashiki's dimensional hopping. Managing to injure Urashiki, the pair was saved by Sasuke, who forced their foe to retreat. Brought back to Konoha to be treated, Boruto saw Shinki off at the Thunder Rail station. Afterwards, Shukaku stayed at the Uzumaki house for a brief period until a safehouse was organised, during which Naruto informed Boruto about the tailed beasts.

 Time Slip Arc 

In the anime, after being told by Hinata he was just like Naruto at that age, always eager to train with his mentor Jiraiya, Boruto became intrigued to learn more about the Sannin. He then went to Sasuke's house only to find Sarada. Together, the pair decided to search for the author's Icha Icha series, during which different adults insisted that they were too young to read his adult books. Later, when Boruto learned he was the only genin that not on the mission to hunt Urashiki due to Urashiki's vendetta against Boruto, Sasuke suggested that he work with Boruto as a two-man team while staying within the village, which Naruto agreed to. That night, the majority of the village's shinobi left the village in an attempt to corner Urashiki. Acknowledging that Naruto was too well-guarded for Urashiki to go after, Boruto deduced Urashiki was after an artefact recently found that bore the Ōtsutsuki symbol. His hunch led him and Sasuke to discover Urashiki activating the artefact to create a portal he entered. Following him, Sasuke managed to separate Urashiki from the item before being transported away from him.

Arriving in Konoha, the pair discovered they have arrived in the past, shortly after Tsunade became Hokage. Realising Urashiki's plan was to acquire Kurama's chakra from Naruto as a child, Sasuke asked the artefact Karasuki about the enemy, which explained that due to Sasuke's interference, Urashiki would not arrive in this time period for a few days, and warned them to avoid as much interaction with the past as possible or risk severe changes to the timeline. Listening to the advice, Sasuke and Boruto disguised themselves. Soon afterwards, Boruto and Sasuke bumped into Naruto and Jiraiya. When Tsunade arrived, they claimed to be travelling performers. Tsunade had Naruto and Jiraiya guard the pair, which soon after, Jiraiya left Naruto to take care of alone. After Sasuke slipped away to keep his distance, Naruto brought Boruto to his house, during which Boruto noted the resemblance between his father's young and current-self. Later, Boruto would continue intriguing Naruto about the modern advances of the village that he comes from. He then met the Konoha 11, amazed at how all the future parents were in childhood. Later, Naruto was assigned to clean up the hot spring as punishment for his and Jiraiya's commotion there the other day. Boruto and the other genin helped out.

Through the following days, Boruto deduced the truth about past-Sasuke's absence was due to abandoning the village. He confronted his master about the event, who shamefully admitted that at the time, he was so fixated on getting his revenge. The following day, Urashiki arrived and found Naruto, where Boruto and Sasuke stood prepared to fight and protect Naruto. Capturing Naruto, Urashiki encased Boruto, Sasuke and Jiraiya in rubble before fleeing. Sasuke explained to Jiraiya that he and Boruto were actually ninja from a distant village with a mission to stop Urashiki from stealing Kurama's chakra. Jiraiya decided to work with the duo, breaking them free by summoning a giant toad. Soon, Sasuke locked onto Naruto's location. They learned that the seal containing Kurama was stopping Urashiki from stealing the demon's chakra, leading to Jiraiya placing a seal on the pair to protect them. Upon finding Naruto, Urashiki's actions forced the boy into his Version 1 state, leading to Naruto accidentally attacking Boruto while Urashiki fled. After Naruto regained consciousness, Jiraiya began taring the pair of genin. Instructing Boruto and Naruto on how to synchronise their chakra for the goal of developing a unique new cooperation ninjutsu, the task was too difficult for them.

Returning to the village alone, he encountered his relative Neji Hyūga, who cheered Boruto up after talking about Naruto's struggles. The following day, Naruto and Boruto made amends with each other and began resuming their training. While they began making progress, completing the task still proved difficult. They were then approached again by Urashiki, who began toying with them with his various stolen techniques before subduing them. Deciding the foe's newest technique was too dangerous, Sasuke tackled himself and Urashiki over the ledge and into a river to let his allies escape. While tending to Jiraiya's wounds, the group tried to figure out how to deal with Urashiki. Boruto then realised that in the fight, the blood splattered on Urashiki was drying much faster than Boruto's. After engaging the foe again to test a theory, they concluded that Urashiki's technique lets him warp into the past by several seconds, giving him a pseudo-clairvoyance from his experiences.

Urashiki then attack the Konoha-nin again, where Jiraiya then contained everyone in his Summoning: Toad Mouth Bind. During which, Naruto unleashed a continued barrage of clones on Urashiki. While he easily countered the assault with his technique, Urashiki inadvertently poisoned himself from the acidic vapours of the great toad's belly far sooner than the Konoha-nin due to his repeated time-warp. Once Jiraiya released the summoning, Boruto and Naruto then proceeded to knockout Urashiki with a Rasengan assault. Still defiant, the enraged Urashiki awoke and consumed all his accumulated chakra, along with his very own eyes. The final result transformed him into a fiendish being of immense physical might. Jiraiya and the two genin were quickly overwhelmed by Urashiki's continued assaults, even with the aid of the returning Sasuke. Urashiki deliberately held back on Naruto, hoping to anger him enough into unleashing the Nine-Tails' chakra. His efforts ultimately succeeded and Naruto went into a rampage. Boruto however managed to reach Naruto and together were able to perfect their new collaboration technique. With the combined effort of Jiraiya and Sasuke, the two kids were able to plough through Urashiki's final attack and obliterate him. Soon after, with their mission completed, Sasuke erased everyone's minds of meeting the time travelers before he and Boruto returned to their proper time.

Some time later, after Sumire Kakei resigned from her genin team to join the Scientific Ninja Weapons Team, Boruto joined his friends in a farewell party for the former class rep. They also met Sumire's replacement for Team 15, Tsubaki Kurogane a samurai student from the Land of Iron. Later, as Hiashi's birthday was fast approaching, Boruto was concerned on what to get his grandfather as a present at his party. Ultimately, he went to Kurenai Yūhi for advice, since she had some history with the Hyūga clan leader. While Kurenai felt she shouldn't pry into such personal matters, she insisted to Boruto that any heartfelt gesture to his grandfather would be greatly appreciated. She told him about the Hyūga Affair and how it really left a lasting impression on Hiashi, making him value family more than ever. From this Boruto decided to swallow his pride for his grandfather and have a family photo, suggesting they do it annually as a present to Hiashi, which indeed was greatly appreciated by the man.

 Sasuke Shinden: The Teacher's Star Pupil 

Boruto appears in this novel.

 Mujina Bandits Arc 

In the anime, Boruto was assigned an undercover mission at Hōzuki Castle, to protect the Mujina Bandits's former member Kokuri from Tsukiyo, in exchange for information on their dealings and leadership. At the prison, while Sarada posed as a reporter, Boruto and Mitsuki posed as thieves. Having the support of the warden, Mujō applied a fake imprisonment technique on the pair. Inside, they were assigned to share a cell with Kedama, Kamata and Arai, the former of which informed Boruto what it required to get sent into the medical ward, which was were Kokuri resided. Consuming a poisonous fruit in order to be sent there, Boruto made contact with Kokuri, and while returning to the prison he discovered Kokuri had been stabbed in the access-restricted ward. After Boruto was discharged from the ward, he had Mitsuki contact Sarada with his snake to have the warden move Kokuri to their cell for better protection. After succeeding, they learned that one of the prison's special access cards was missing for three days. As the guards began looking for it, Mitsuki realised that the card must have been stolen by one of their cell-mates when Boruto was being taken to the medical ward. Ultimately, they discovered Arai to be the assailant, leading to him being taken away.

Later, the team managed to trick Kokuri into revealing that he had donated the money he stole from the Mujina Bandits, prompting Boruto to promise to get Kokuri to Konoha safety. After Mojū fell ill and Benga decided to have Kokuri transferred to Hōzoki Castle #2 where he couldn't be protected, it was decided to gave break Kokuri out of jail before the transfer could happen. Learning of a supply ship that regularly comes to the prison and that a large amount of water would be needed to counter Kokuri's imprisonment technique, Team 7 sabotaged the water line knowing it would force the guards to use a backup line that they could gather water from. As the night drew closer and there was no sign from Sarada about her part of the mission, the group grew concerned. Boruto was determined to trust Sarada and move forward with the plan. While Kokuri was concerned by Sarada's lack of communication, Boruto remained steadfast. On their way to the water tank, the group was attacked by Benga's summon, which Mitsuki was able to defeat. However, the tank had been drained by Benga, who along with his summon was able to catch up with them. Sarada arrived just in time to save them with information she acquired from Kedama.

On the outside, Boruto and the others were attacked by Mujina second-in-command, Tsukiyo. Using his array of shadow-manipulation techniques, he was able to pressure the genin. Growing desperate, Kokuri gave Boruto a notebook of all the data he had on the Mujina Bandits in case he didn't survive. As the Konoha-nin began to tire, Kokuri saw through the enemy technique's weakness to light, giving the Konoha-nin the knowledge they needed to overpower and defeat their foe. In a last ditch effort, Tsukiyo grabbed Kokuri and dragged the man with him off the ledge and into the ocean. "Kokuri" then emerged, claiming that Tsukiyo drowned. Soon after, Sai and a group of Konoha-nin appeared, having been mobilised by Naruto after losing contact with Mujō for so long. With Benga being killed by Tsukiyo and Mujō having recently recovered to resume his duties, Team 7's mission was completed, taking Kokuri with them to the village and verify his intel on the Mujina Bandits before releasing him.

Several months later, while Team 7 was on a mission, Boruto kept thinking about his seal. However he soon regained his senses and managed to defeat the robbers his team were trailing, but in the process ruined their objective of letting one escape in order to track him to his boss. Afterwards, Boruto bought some Shinobi collecting cards before Lee arrived and told him that Konohamaru required his presence at the Hokage building. When he got there, Konohamaru tasked him with the mission of protecting Tentō Madoka for the next few days. Later, at Tentō's request, Boruto demonstrated various ninjutsu. Eventually, Tentō showed off his near-complete collection of shinobi collecting cards. When Boruto was amazed that Tentō had the one card he wanted despite how rare and expensive it was, Tentō offered to give Boruto the card he desired if he would teach him some ninjutsu. While not liking Tentō's attitude on trying to buy his way towards anything, he decided to teach Tentō nonetheless. As Boruto began teaching him shurikenjutsu, Tentō quickly became discouraged at how he couldn't even properly throw a shuriken. As Tentō explained his desire to become a ninja was to make his father notice him, Boruto, able to relate, reminisces about the things he did to make Naruto notice him, insisting that some things cannot be bought. Encouraging Tentō to keep working at it, the boy gradually improved in his technique until finally hitting the target. Proud of himself for succeeding, Boruto encouraged him to keep practice to find his own path. Later, Boruto gave Tentō the Seventh Hokage card he was missing for his collection. After the three days of body-guarding passed, Tentō asked if he could visit Boruto again, which Boruto agreed to as they were now friends. 

Later, Boruto and his team were delighted to be issued their first B-rank mission. As he was about to prepare for his mission, he noticed the ultra rare trading card he desired was in his pocket. Realising that Tentō slipped it in, Boruto decided to return it. While sneaking into Tentō's room, he overheard the daimyō saying that Tentō was kidnapped by the Mujina Bandits. Determined to save his new friend, Boruto asked Sarada to tell their team he couldn't join them on the mission because of an important matter. Boruto soon found Tentō, just in time to stop Shojoji from eating his brain for his jutsu. Subduing the other bandits there, Boruto engaged Shojoji in battle, during which his attacks were repelled by Shojoji's Wind Release. As Shojoji began proclaiming how he would eat Boruto, he found a shuriken lodged in his back which Tentō threw. Enraged at his captive attacking him, Shojoji forgot about Boruto, allowing him to knock Shojoji out with his Rasengan. Attempting to defeat him with another Rasengan, Boruto's mark painfully spread, leading to him becoming paralysed and Shojoji becoming horrified at the thought of him being part of a certain organisation. As Boruto insists he is clueless to such a thing, Shojoji resumes his attack, only to be subdued and knocked out by Mitsuki and Sarada respectively. Realising that his teammates abandoned their B-rank mission to help him, Boruto apologised to them as the mark receded back into his palm and the pain stopped. Later, Boruto and his teammates were scolded by Konohamaru for abandoning their mission, insisting that there would be punishment. When Tentō prepared to leave the village, Boruto gave him back the rare card, insisting that he has to get one on his own.

 Kara Actuation Arc 

In the anime, as Boruto grew impatient on how to deal with Kara and his Kāma, Sasuke approached him, and instructed Boruto keep his mark concealed at all times to not draw attention. Later, Boruto and his team were assigned to work with Mugino to find Anato, a missing researcher in the Land of Valleys. After meeting the man's wife and learning about the village's large medical company, they were able to sneak the last known location of Anato's team. There, they were intercepted by Victor and his guards who were also looking for Anato. Joining efforts, Team 7 found Anato, whose body was altered into a malleable state and mindlessly attacked them. Unable to restrain him, Victor's men subdued him. Viewing the act as ruthless, Victor insisted there wasn't an alternative. With their mission technically completed, the Konoha-nin decided to return to the Konohagakure. Along the way, Mitsuki became ill and his body was taking on the same properties as Anato. Mugino brought them to Yubina. The doctor was able to treat Mitsuki, and determined that during the fight with Anato, Mitsuki was infected by Hashirama Senju's cells. Revealing other cases like this have shown up, Yubina informed the shinobi that there was a rumour that the Land of Silence's black market was selling the cell.

Leaving Mitsuki to recover, the team infiltrated Curtain Village to search for the item. There, they learned that a worker from Victor's company came by weeks ago with the Hashirama Cell before suddenly disappearing. They also heard rumours that a man was in the area with connections to the Hashirama Cell. It turned out to be missing-nin named Kirisaki with unique medical ninjutsu prowess. Boruto was able to detain him, leading to Konohamaru disguising himself as the missing-nin. Joined by Boruto posing as his assistant, they met a buttler who was infected by the cell as a test to see "Kirisaki's" skill. After the man collapsed Konohamaru reluctantly used the antibodies Yubina acquired from Mitsuki to heal the man. Fooled, the man revealed to be a butler of Sakuya. She desired to use the Hashirama Cell on herself under the misguided delusion that it would let her live forever and even more, restore her youth and former beauty. At Fushū Castle, Boruto was suddenly detained, where the butler wished to see the process firsthand of how "Kirisaki" would stabilise the Hashirama Cell using Boruto. Konohamaru was able to stall while Boruto slipped away to retrieve the target as it was a shadow clone that was detained. Upon finding Sakuya's quarters, he found that she was murdered and the cell was gone. A group of quadruplet ninja revealed to have stolen the cell and framed Boruto for the murder while they retreated from the castle.

As Boruto and Konohamaru joined up with Sarada and Mugino, everyone in the city began hunting them down, in hopes of getting a reward for their capture. Aided by Katara, the pair escaped to a base, where the shinobi met up with Mitsuki who had fully recovered. Learning from Katara's network who the true killers were, the genin spilt up from the jōnin to find their targets, during which they were attack by Omoi, Kakui, and Marui. The Kumogakure shinobi, who assumed the genin possessed the cell, interrogated them regarding it. Mugino and Konohamaru quickly returned and cleared things up, and after explaining the situation, the groups worked together to hunt down the culprits. Along the way, they were intercepted by Deepa, who was also looking for the Hashirama Cell. Omoi's team decided to face the new threat while the Konoha-nin moved on. Intercepting Yūga, the team bypassed his jutsu and caught up with Hiruga. Restrained by his sludge, Omoi arrived and informed everyone that Deepa killed his allies and was on his way to the Land of Haze to get the Hashirama Cell. Worrying for his remaining brother, Hiruga cancelled his technique and rushed off, prompting the Konoha shinobi to follow.

Upon catching up to Hiruga's older brother, Asaka, it took some convincing that Hiruga was truly him and that there was a new threat. Before a truce could be agreed upon, Deepa arrived and swiftly struck down the remaining quadruplets. Boruto was furious and attacked the man, only for his kunai to harmlessly bounce off Deepa's body. The man explained that he is able to manipulate all the carbon is around him, including in his own body to become invulnerable. Victor arrived, and revealed to be allied with Deepa. Victor split up the jōnin from the genin in the team, where Boruto and his team-mates faced Deepa. Between Deepa's relentless barrage of carbon projectiles and his impervious body, the genin were quickly overwhelmed. Boruto attempted an all-or-nothing Rasengan strike on Deepa, but the man easily endured it. As Boruto and Sarada were knocked out, Mitsuki revealed his Sage Transformation to save his friends and escape.

With how severe Boruto and Sarada's injuries were, Mitsuki brought them to Yubina for care, who stabilised their condition. Soon after, Konohamaru and Mugino brought them back to Konohagakure for better care, also bringing Mitsuki to Orochimaru for his treatment. After successfully undergoing an operation, Boruto was left ashamed at his defeat against Deepa. Despite this, three days later, Boruto was able to pick himself back up and committed himself to growing stronger. As his goal was to evolve his Rasengan, but Konohamaru was on mission and Naruto was too busy, Boruto turned to Kakashi for help. The retired Hokage quickly made it clear that mastering the Big Ball Rasengan, Boruto's goal, was impossible as he lacked enough chakra for it. Kakashi instead had him work on applying nature transformation to his Rasengan, particularly Wind Release. As Boruto's jutsu consistently misfired, he voiced his envy of how powerful and experienced Kakashi was at his age. Kakashi pointed out the hardships he had to endure, and envied Boruto for growing up in a peaceful time with loved ones, so he wasn't alone. This inspired Boruto to use a shadow clone to apply nature transformation to the Rasengan, managing to use the Wind Release: Rasengan, which impressed Kakashi.

Despite Boruto essentially completing his new technique, Boruto concluded that the increase in power still wasn't nearly enough to handle Deepa's super dense body. Kakashi noted that with his current levels of chakra, has reached his limit to how far he could improve the Rasengan. Boruto however refused to give up and continued training. Later, Boruto was approached by Shikadai, whose team had recently faced Deepa as well. As Boruto voiced his anger at Deepa, Shikadai voiced his concern that Boruto was turning Deepa into an obsession. Boruto, however, insisted that it is not about a wounded ego, but rather he saw Deepa as a wall to his growth as a ninja. After realising that Boruto would not try hunting down Deepa, Shikadai and his team-mates decided to help with the training. Shikadai decided for Boruto's training to focus his Rasengan on a single point to improve its penetrative power. As the day ended and little progress was made, Shikadai and Boruto began discussing the unique nature of Deepa's power, as it was all about the arrangement and pressure of carbon molecules. This suddenly gave Boruto inspiration. By the following day, Boruto succeeded in obliterating a massive boulder with his Rasengan. He told Kakashi about his progress. Deciding to put Boruto to the test, he arranged for Boruto to face off against Shojoji in a police facility, believing the convict would be the perfect opponent to test Boruto's progress.

As the battle began, Boruto's skills matched Shojoji's, but his wind counters proved too powerful, even against Boruto's Wind Release: Rasengan. Deciding he had no choice, Boruto used his new Compression Rasengan. It was able to overcome Shojoji's defences and swiftly defeated him. As Kakashi commended Boruto for coming up with the alternate plan of condensing his Rasengan rather than expanding it, Boruto collapsed as his long hours of training caught up to him. Later recovering back in the hospital, Boruto was greeted by Kakashi. He applauded Boruto's accomplishments, but warned him of the dangers to his new technique. Noting that the Compression Rasengan comes with great recoil that can cause great strain on his arm, it is not a technique that Boruto should use often. While accepting Kakashi's words, Boruto was still determined to refine the technique. After being dismissed from the hospital, he met with Sarada, whose own training under her parents was going well. With both of them having reached a new level, they felt it was a good time to return to the Land of Valleys to return Anato's ring to Mia. Having already gained approval to leave from his father, the two went off.

Upon returning to the Land of Valleys, they met Mia and gave her Anato's ring. They also learned that Victor reported to Mia that Anato was killed by enemies trying to steal their research. Realising that Victor was using Anato for his own gain, Boruto decided to reveal the truth about Victor's goals, despite Sarada's protest. Suddenly, there was an earthquake coming from the company's main building. Boruto and Sarada decided to investigate. There, they found Konohamaru struggling to defend himself from the vicious assault of the recreated God Tree. As they helped him sensei, he explained how the God Tree was not seen since the Fourth Shinobi World War. Victor then approached, explaining that he took fragments of the dead God Tree after the war ended, nurturing them with the Hashirama Cell and the various test subjects. He voiced his joy at how the people of Land of Valleys would be consumed by the God Tree to produce Chakra Fruit. Victor collapsed the ground around Boruto and Sarada, sending them to the floor bellow. There, they were approached by Deepa. Sarada and Boruto were determined to stop him once and for all.

Despite their improved skill, Deepa's carbon powers proved as infallible as ever. Boruto realised their only hope was his new Compression Rasengan. Needing time to form it, he had Sarada mount a distraction, who was unable to last long enough. Suddenly, Boruto was saved by the timely arrival of the recovered Mitsuki. With Team 7 reunited, Boruto was able to land his new Rasengan. However, as it proved able to overwhelm Deepa's solid body, he activated his final defence to form a mighty armour, repelling Boruto. Boruto refused to despair and attacked again, aided by his friends who donated their chakra to him and form a Super Compression Rasengan, which broke through Deepa's defence and defeated him. During which, Orochimaru destroyed the God Tree and defeated Victor. As Mia promised to testify against the company's actions, Team 7 was proud of their victory. Back in the village, as Boruto was still nursing his injured hand, he and his friends found Denki setting up an experiment to improve radio communications. Boruto and the others decided to help him with the work. It ultimately worked, but failed to maintain stability. Denki however remained determined to improve the technology. Boruto joined everyone in cheering.

 Ao Arc 

In the anime, Boruto attended the memorial service for the fallen people of the Fourth Shinobi World War. Later, Boruto joined his father in a sparring match at the Training Hall, seeing it as a chance to make up for his actions as the Chūnin Exams during which all his elemental attacks were absorbed by Naruto, who goes onto defeating Boruto. Afterwards, Boruto learned that his father had his prosthetic hand modifed by Katasuke to include jutsu-absorbing capacities. While Boruto was furious at this deception, viewing Naruto as a hypocrite for using such advanced tools in combat after scolding him for doing the same, Sasuke calmed Boruto down, explaining the tool itself is not the problem, but rather being over-reliant on it. As Sasuke explained more of the existence of Kara, Mitsuki asked if this group had anything to do with Boruto's mark that he gained from Momoshiki. While Boruto was furious at Mitsuki offhandedly revealing his secret, Naruto admitted that Sasuke already told them about it, which was another reason Naruto approved the development of this advanced weaponry. Katasuke then arrived to retrieve his prototype, to which Naruto assigned Team Konohamaru a C-rank mission to escort the lead scientist back to the lab in Ryūtan City. While Boruto stormed off in a huff, Naruto asked his genin team-mates to watch over him should anything happen with his mark. Mitsuki then talked to Boruto, convincing him to get over his anger and join the mission.

Travelling by train to Ryūtan City, the group encountered Ao, who lectured Boruto about Scientific Ninja Tools, leading to him changing his views on it and respecting the man. Upon arriving at their destination, they unexpectedly encountered Sumire, and later, complete the other half of their mission involving testing out Scientific Ninja Tools. Afterwards, Boruto was greeted by Chamaru, who Boruto was happy to see again. He surprised however to see the friendly dog's prosthetic leg. Akita Inuzuka explained how it was thanks to Katsuke that both Chamaru could walk again and she found her passion for science. Amazed at how much Katsuke truly was endeared to helping Konoha and its people, Boruto decided to let got of his anger at the scientist. Boruto's team then receive a call from the Seventh Hokage, noting that Konohamaru and his partner Mugino went missing during a mission nearby, and tasked them with searching for the pair.

Accompanied with Katasuke, they found Konohamaru's last known location, at a crash site of a blimp. While investigating, they are attacked by autonomous puppets, which Katasuke subdues, giving the team the chance to destroy them all. Following Chamaru who was trailing Konohamaru's scent, they discover the two missing jōnin in a cave. Shortly after, they encounter Ao, who questions them on what they learned inside the blimp. Attempting to silence them, Ao attacked the group and stole one of Katasuke's gauntlets, which he used to absorb Boruto's Rasengan. Mugino then held Ao down long enough to collapse the cave on him and Ao to save everyone, however, Ao survived, prompting the team to retreat. Afterwards, Konohamaru insisted that they had to return the data he found on the blimp to Konoha, which Katasuke offered to act as a divergence to atone for his mistakes of leaking information. Boruto, realising that the scientist was ashamed of his inventions, reminded Katasuke that he too hated such tools at first, but learned that all tools are either good of bad depending on how they are used.

Devising a plan to defeat Ao, Team Konohamaru began their counterattack, during which Boruto fooled Ao into picking up his extreme chakra-draining blade and weakening him. Breaking free of their trap, Ao attempted to absorb Boruto's oncoming Rasengan with his gauntlet, leading to Boruto using Katasuke's other gauntlet and cancelling out the effect of Ao's, giving him the opportunity to strike Ao's gauntlet and destroy it. Cornered, Ao used his Mirror Drones, leading to Konohamaru sacrificing himself to save Boruto from their attack. Being barraged by their Jutsu Bullets, Boruto used his sphere to absorb the attacks. Afterwards, he creates clones, and has one of them equip his gauntlet in order to fool Ao. When the Clones are all defeated, Boruto revealed himself and picked up his Chakra Blade to slash through Ao's artificial limbs, before defeating him with a Rasengan. After the ordeal, Boruto approached the injured Ao, and gave him the same lecture Ao earlier told him. While Konohamaru congratulated his team, Boruto noticed Ao panicking, leading to him using Water Release to knock Boruto away. Noticing that a giant toad had crushed the area Boruto was just standing, he questioned why Ao had saved him while staring at his corpse.

As the perpetrator introduced himself as Koji Kashin, he erects pillars around the team to restrain them with fūinjutsu, leading to Konohamaru freeing himself from the technique and facing Koji alone. As they fight, the two use their Rasengan, prompting Boruto to comment on there being another user of the technique. After cancelling each others' Rasengan, Konohamaru is engulfed in Koji's flames, resulting in Boruto's Kāma unconsciously activating, which then absorbs the fūinjutsu and the flames. Questioning what the marking is, Boruto collapsed. After Koji becomes interested from the revelation, he retreated. Having departed the scene, Sarada assisted Boruto in walking, during which the group encountered destroyed puppets a fair distance away from the rest, followed by an unconscious boy who also had a Kāma.

 Kawaki Arc 

While the team examined Kawaki's body, Boruto's Kāma became painful. Seeing Kawaki suddenly in pain as well, Boruto wondered if they were feeling the same pain. Regaining consciousness, the team dodged Kawaki's shock wave. Refusing to provide them with information regarding the crashed blimp, Boruto showed his Kāma to Kawaki, leading to him believing the team were pursuers from Kara. As Boruto attempted to correct him, their conversation is interrupted by Garō, who gets into a fight with Kawaki. Boruto wanted to help, but Konohamaru insisted that this mission's newest variables made the danger-level to S-Rank, meaning they had to progress cautiously. Suddenly, Boruto's Kāma activated again, causing Boruto agony. At the same time, Kawaki's own Kāma activated, giving him newfound energy and proceeded to kill Garō. Boruto activated his own mark, using it to absorb the shockwave to protect his team-mates. Seeing this convinced Kawaki more than ever that they were with Kara before he fainted.

As Katasuke examined the boy, he determined that Kawaki was in fact the result of an unprecedented Ninja Tech, as his entire being was modified. It was decided that they bring Kawaki to Naruto. In the anime, while Konohamaru went to report to the Hokage, Team 7 brought Kawaki back to the research institute to be examined. Eventually Kawaki was able to escape the facility, prompting Naruto to intervene and subdue the foreigner. In Konoha, Boruto continued wondering how his mark was related to Kawaki. In the anime, during which, he continued caring for Mugino's turtle. Upon seeing that it took a liking to Konohamaru, Boruto agreed to let Konohamaru adopt his late friend's pet. Later, upon returning home, he discovered Kawaki had began living at his house under Naruto's watch. Boruto noticed that Himawari's personal vase was broken and learned Kawaki was responsible, leading to him angrily confronting him. While openly indifferent to Boruto's anger, he gruffly apologised for his unintentional actions and finally introduced himself.

The next day, Boruto and Kawaki began getting on the other's nerves, soon coming to blows which eventually activated their Kāma. Before the fight could escalate further, Naruto stopped them. Later, as Boruto prepared to leave for his next mission, Kawaki approached him and asked Boruto how he acquired his Kāma. He told him about Momoshiki, and in turn questioned Kawaki about his, and was horrified that someone would so shamelessly sacrifice countless kids to succeed in marking just one in Kawaki. Figuring that Boruto would also be a target of Kara and also wished to remove his own Kāma, he offered to cooperate with Boruto to get rid of their marks, speculating that once succeeded Kara would let them be. Boruto considered it, but still wouldn't excuse him for breaking Himawari's vase, and told him to make it up for her. Later, Naruto offered to do some sparing with Boruto, which Boruto was eager to do. Kawaki insisted that Boruto try using his Kāma, as understanding its power would be the first step to removing it. Knowing that Boruto still couldn't activate it at will, Kawaki activated his own so Boruto's would respond in kind. Naruto approved of his son using it and quickly showed a considerable improvement in performance. Afterwards, despite Boruto still losing, Naruto applauded his son on his recent growth, which Boruto was happy to hear. Later, Kawaki gave up trying to fix the vase leading to Boruto yelling at him. Immediately after this he asked Kawaki to teach him about the Kāma as he wanted to master it a bit, leading to them sparring together. Afterwards Boruto saw a vision of Momoshiki and asked Kawaki if he saw anything, which he didn't. 

Meanwhile, Naruto was informed by Ino that someone had infiltrated the village. Naruto told Boruto to take Himawari and run but before this could happen, Delta arrived before them. As Delta and Naruto exchanged words, Boruto took Kawaki's fearful attitude as proof of Delta's abilities. Naruto instructed him to watch over Himawari before fighting Delta. Fearing for his father's safety, Boruto recklessly launched his Vanishing Rasengan at her, who quickly absorbed the attack to reenergise herself. Going for a new tactic, Delta then launched her beam at Himawari, knowing that she would inevitably hit someone, whether it be her target or the Hokage acting as a human shield for his daughter. To everyone's surprise however, it was Kawaki who blocked the blast, at the cost of his right arm which shocked Boruto. After Naruto defeated Delta, Kawaki began opening up more with Boruto, who introduced him to his friends. From this, Boruto and his friends began teaching him Extreme: Shinobi Picture Scrolls, where Kawaki gave Boruto an extremely rare Fourth Hokage card in exchange for a Seventh Hokage card. Boruto and his friends also began teaching him about ninjutsu when he took an interest in it. While training with Kawaki, he quickly grasped basic concepts of chakra control. Kawaki opened up about Jigen, revealing him to be the one who modified his body and granted him his Kāma, and as someone they'll inevitably have to fight. Boruto stood with Kawaki, even calling him "brother".

Boruto later rushes back home with Mitsuki when his Kāma inadvertently activated, feeling something bad happened to Kawaki. He grew even more concerned when his mark suddenly receded again. As Boruto and Mitsuki arrived, asking what happened, Kawaki explained that Jigen appeared and took Naruto. Kawaki was then suddenly subdued by Shikamaru's Shadow Imitation Technique. Openly noting his distrust of Kawaki, Shikamaru had a team of ninja use a barrier to lock down the area while he interrogated Kawaki. While Boruto vouched for him, Kawaki did not fight Shikamaru's growing distrust. Kawaki then noticed his prosthetic arm reacting, leading him to realise Naruto was alive. Synchronising his Kāma with Boruto's, they were able to produce a rift. While Shikamaru refused to let anyone enter it, Kawaki used his Kāma to escape Shikamaru's technique while he and the genin entered the rift to Naruto's location. On the other side, they met Boro, who was guarding a pot with Naruto sealed inside. As they engaged him in battle, Boro endured Team 7's by quickly regenerating and exposed them to his Dark Cloud which sapped away their strength. While planning to take Boruto back to Kara along with Kawaki, the combined effort of Mitsuki and Sarada gave the team an opening to retreat. After Mitsuki had Sarada analyse Boro's mist with her Sharingan, which revealed its viral nature, Sarada was picked as team leader and led their counterattack. When she was able to create an opening, Boruto and Kawaki attacked together, having recovered from the virus, destroying Boro's head and much of his upper body.

After regenerating, Boruto and Mitsuki battled off Boro to help Kawaki, only for the foe to repeatedly regenerate. As Kawaki joined in the assault, weathering Boro's counter assault against the tiring children, Sarada finally made her move. Having learned from Kawaki about Boro's limitless regeneration requiring a special core in his body, she struck with her Chidori. Successfully removing the core, Boro's body began mutating without its stabiliser. With Kawaki's help, Boruto was able to use their Kāma to create a rift in the seal and free the unconscious Naruto. While the kids checked on the Hokage, Boro composed himself enough to attack, striking down Mitsuki. As the others were quickly overwhelmed by Boro's massive form, Boruto's mark evolved further, manifesting Momoshiki's will and persona while exhibiting a massive boost in power to beat Boro about. Taking complete control of Boruto's body, Momoshiki obliterated Boro with a gigantic Rasengan. As the Kāma deactivated, Momoshiki warned Boruto that it was not yet time for him to lose everything, leaving Boruto unconscious and falling from the sky. He was caught by Mitsuki and checked on, and upon awakening remembered nothing of Momoshiki's manifestation.

After the team returned to Konoha with Naruto, they were all taken to the hospital for treatment. There, Boruto and his family were delighted to see Naruto make a full recovery. In the anime, Kawaki informed Boruto about his involuntary metamorphosis against Boro, noting that he too underwent a similar episode against Jiren. Later, Team 7 joined the Konoha officials in discussing recent events. They learned that Kara had a Ten-Tails stored away in a separate dimension. Kawaki also revealed that each member of Kara was modified with advanced Shinobi-Ware to perform remarkable abilities without ninjutsu. When Amado was taken for questioning regarding his asylum request for Konoha, Boruto watched his interrogation, learning more about the nature of the Ōtsutsuki, the Kāma, and the threat it posed to him of having his being and will overwritten by Momoshiki's.

During the interrogation, Amado's glasses suddenly projected a battle between Koji and a weakened Jigen. Boruto watched the battle, and Jigen's death, which triggered the vanishing of Kawaki's Kāma as the one in Jigen fully activated, much to Boruto's surprise. After Amado explained how this signified that Isshiki was resurrected through Jigen's body and he was officially made a citizen of Konohagakure, the man explained that Isshiki's resurrection was unstable and would seek out Kawaki again to rebrand him. Boruto insisted to fight alongside his father and mentor against him, but they both refused. Before they could settle the argument, they were alerted that Isshiki had arrived in the village. Despite the threat, Sasuke conceded Boruto's request, and gave the genin his old forehead protector.

On the battlefield as Isshiki's power began overwhelming Naruto and destroying the village, Sasuke launched his sword at Isshiki. When he failed to shrink it, it was revealed to be Boruto. He activated his Kāma and teleported Isshiki and himself to a separate dimension. Sasuke and Naruto soon followed Boruto, and began fighting Isshiki. Isshiki grabbed Boruto, and informed his Kāma transformation was around 80% complete. Sasuke saved Boruto by swapping places. Afterwards, Isshiki pinned down Sasuke (trying to crush him with his cubes in the anime) and moved to kill him, only for Boruto jump in the way, causing Isshiki to hesitate, leading to Boruto deducing Isshiki couldn't kill him. While Isshiki tried to deny his claim, Boruto revealed what he learned about his plan from Boro during their fight, meaning Isshiki needed Boruto alive. Boruto threatened to kill himself with a kunai if Isshiki didn't back down. Isshiki however quickly shrunk the kunai out of Boruto's hands and subdued him. Isshiki explained that once Boruto has fully transformed into an Ōtsutsuki, he would be fed to the Ten-Tails to nourish it into a God Tree. Suddenly, Naruto knocked Isshiki away before he released last-ditch strategy of transforming into a new form. As Boruto struggled to keep watching Naruto fighting Isshiki alone, Boruto fainted from his injuries. As Isshiki was able to teleport Kawaki to their location, Momoshiki took control of Boruto's body, during which Naruto and Kawaki's combined effort lead to Isshiki dying.

Upon Naruto becoming unconscious, Momoshiki was able to impale Sasuke's Rinnegan. Following a battle, Kawaki and Sasuke managed to make Boruto's personality resurface by forcing Momoshiki into absorbing more chakra. While still disoriented, Boruto stopped Momoshiki from teleporting away with Kawaki, and broke off his horn, causing his Kāma to recede. As he collapsed exhausted, he apologised for the trouble to Kawaki, who apologised back. Boruto was alerted to Naruto suddenly losing consciousness. Upon checking on his father, Naruto soon awoke, revealing that usage of the Baryon Mode came at the cost of Kurama dying inside him, voiding Naruto of the kitsune's chakra and powers. With Sasuke's Rinnegan and Kawaki's Kāma gone, it was up to Boruto to use his mark to bring everyone back. Boruto struggled in fear of Momoshiki re-emerging. This prompted Kawaki to speak bluntly to Boruto, insisting that they would find a way to free Boruto from his burden, but they must first return home. Ultimately, Boruto was riled up enough by Kawaki's provocation to access a rift, letting everyone return to Konoha. Boruto proclaimed he felt empowered when alongside Kawaki, who mocked Boruto for his sappiness. In the anime, Boruto's fear of being taken over by Momoshiki caused him to avoid sleeping. When Naruto revealed his Kāma progression was accelerating, he vowed to do everything he could to save Boruto, which was enough to ease Boruto back into being able to sleep.

 Chūnin Re-Examination Arc 

In the anime, Team 7 decided to retake the Chūnin Exams. Passing the written test, the three genin advanced to the second test in the Forest of Death. Tasked with rescuing a mock injured ally while avoiding traps enemy shinobi within a time limit, Boruto was able to find his injured ally, but Kaito Kawanami stole the ally for himself. Kaito ended up injuring himself, so Boruto took upon himself to carry him out as well, causing him to fail in leaving the forest before the time limit was up. However, he passed the exam because they were all being evaluated for their overall performance, not just the end result. As part of the final exam, Boruto would have to defeat another of the passing genin in a one-on-one battle. The day of the finals, Boruto and Mitsuki were approached by a concerned Himawari. She and her friends discovered some suspicious individuals. She took them to the train station, where they witnessed the foreigners kidnapping Amado. The genin hopped onto a train and were able to find Amado's location in a warehouse. While Amado's abductors tried to recruit him, the genin saved him. Amado thanked them, before reminding them that they had the finals to get to. The two arrived at the arena, only for Sarada to angrily inform them they had been disqualified. They expressed interest in fighting each other after learning the previous match was supposed to have been between them. They watched the final match, and cheered for the winners that were promoted. That night, Boruto and Mitsuki returned to the arena to have the match they were supposed to have during the finals.

Days later, Team 7 discussed how Konohamaru would no longer be their team captain following Sarada's promotion. When Konoha learned that Konohamaru stayed behind as a prisoner during a mission, Team 7 was sent as their mission history allowed them to better coordinate with him. Observing the village as they arrived, they ascertained the hostage situation and Konohamaru's intent, so Boruto distracted Hyōgo and his subordinates long enough for a fog to roll in, allowing them to free the hostages. They joined with Konohamaru, helped repair the village, and returned to the village, where they took one last photo as a team. Later, during a mission to move livestock, the team noticed two suspicious shinobi passing by, specially so as Boruto could smell blood on them. Boruto and Sarada chose to follow them, leaving Mitsuki to complete their mission. They found Shikadai taking care of an injured Chōchō, and they explained how their mission had developed, including how Kawaki went ahead with their client. Boruto and Shikadai went ahead, arriving in time to protect Kawaki from Kurobane after Mozuku had been fatally injured. Mozuku entrusted Kawaki to deliver his medicine, while Boruto held back enemy shinobi. Back at Konoha, Boruto reported to Naruto. He and Mitsuki later visited a recovering Kawaki in the hospital, and expressed concern about whether Kawaki was suited to be a shinobi as they left.

 Great Sea Battle of Kirigakure Arc 

In the anime, after Kawaki officially joined Team 7, they were assigned to escort Katasuke to a ceremony in Kirigakure, for the unveiling of new advanced power plants, while also covertly investigate rumours of a terrorist threat posed to the event. Upon arriving, Boruto left to met with Kagura who was working as a warden at a prison. Reuniting, communications were suddenly, prompting Boruto to offer assistance to prison intruders. Boruto and Kagura intercepted and engaged the Funato Clan after they rescued their leader Araumi Funato, but couldn't prevent them all from escaping. Regrouping with Team 7, Boruto told them of what occurred at the prison, and that the airship attack at the event was a diversion. Concerned for Team 5 who were who was in a mission in seas that the Funato was taking over, Team 7 procured a boat, and were joined by Kagura and his team of Buntan Kurosuki, Hebiichigo, and Kyohō Fuefuki

Upon arriving at Dotō Island, Sarada and Mitsuki infiltrated the island. While waiting, a mobile fortress approached them, leading to Kagura instructing Boruto to investigate it along Buntan and Kawaki. In doing so, they discovered a massive, long-range, scientific ninja tool weapon. Boruto managed to radio Kagura and warned him about the Chakra Cannon, and in turn learned that Sarada's group going to their rendezvous would put them on the fortress's path. He decided they'd have to destroy the cannon themselves. Soon joined by Kagura's group, they were attacked by Tenma Funato, during which Boruto managed to use a crane to divert the cannon into destroying the fortress instead of the ship that Boruto's peers and Dotō Island's residents were onboard. Having escaped on a lifeboat, the two group reunited. The following morning, Taiki was discovered to have been murdered, leading to the shinobi having to investigate until they discovered it was Kobanza, who sacrificed his life to destroy the boat's engine.

As the ship was stuck on the middle of the sea, Boruto eventually suffered from heatstroke, causing him to faint off the ship, where he was saved by an unknown person with webbed hands. When he awoke back on the ship, he told everyone what happened, but they all insisted that he never fell off the ship, merely hallucinated such an event. Boruto remained sure of what happened. Eventually, they were discovered by master shipbuilder, Kajiki. As Boruto noticed Kajiki's apprentice, Ikada, he declared that the boy was the one who saved him. Kajiki however assured him that the boy never left his side. Unable repair the engine, Kajiki instead towed the ship back to his port for proper repairs. As Boruto helped out with repairs, he was impressed to learn how passionate Ikada was about learning to become a shipbuilder like his master. Midway through, they learned that Ikada failed to stock up on a crucial piece for the engine. Boruto was sent with Ikada to retrieve it on Ikada's personally made mini-boat. Along the way, they entered a storm and chanced upon a drowning fisherman. Reluctantly, Ikada turned back and dived in to save him, revealing to Boruto his webbed hands and admitting that he did save Boruto before. Boruto however was not affected by Ikada's condition, promising his friend not to tell anyone about it. After retrieving the part, Ikada and Boruto returned to base.

Later, Team 7 discussed how to proceed given their original mission. Boruto wanted to help Kagura and decided to get some night air as his team-mates returned to their lodges. Noticing some islanders commenting on an unusual black fog, Boruto created clones as a precaution, before Seiren Funato attacked him. She refused to elaborate why she was targeting him, and attacked with her Ray Bow, paralysing his arm. Kagura arrived and protected him from another shot with Hiramekarei, and explained Seiren's fighting style to him. She tried baiting Boruto into exposing himself by injuring Kagura, but Boruto realised that her echolocation tracking could be thrown off by the thunderstorm, allowing him to evade her attack and rescue Kagura. Collaborating with Kagura, the two were able to confirm Seiren's location and distract her, allowing Kagura to sneak up on her and strike her down. Funamushi arrived and rescued her. By morning, the Funato attack had been repelled, and everyone decided to investigate it. After deciphering a coded message recovered from the Funato, they learned that the sea battle was a distraction to allow the Funato to launch a sneak attack at Kirigakure while most of their forces were away. Boruto insisted that as allies, they should help. Before leaving, Boruto went to check on Ikada, but Kajiki revealed he was missing, even finding his abandoned journal. Kagura took them to his childhood village, which was on the route the Funato forces were taking, hoping to intercept them. Boruto was assigned to fortifying the village's defences. While updating Kagura on the progress, he asked about his past in the village, and listened to why Kagura cherished it. When fortifications were done by nighttime, Boruto felt ready to fight the Funato.

The next day, they learned the Funato had sent scouts ahead. While most of the villagers were evacuated, three children were missing, including one with Kawaki's Konoha forehead protector, which would expose their presence. Boruto joined Kagura in retrieving them before they crossed paths with the scouts. Upon their returned, they learned that Hebiichigo had deserted the group after Kagura removed the swordsmen's cursed seal. He supported Kagura's decision of letting Buntan and Kyohō go after her. As the group finished preparing their traps in the ravine, Boruto remained hopeful about Hebiichigo. When the Funato arrived, their scouts foiled their traps, having launched a counterattack of their own. Despite the backup from the swordsmen, Funamushi's Water Release: Furious Roaring Tornado took advantage of the enclosed terrain to ravage the area. The attack was blocked by Team 5, allowing everyone to retreat to the village, where remaining non-combatants were evacuated, and water sources were blocked to deter Funamushi's jutsu. When the Funato arrived, Boruto fought alongside Kagura. Determined to get revenge for Seiren, Funamushi drained his own men of their blood to use his jutsu, requiring Kagura to channel most of his chakra into Hiramekarei to cut through it. Left weakened, Kagura was taken hostage by Funamushi, forcing everyone to drop their weapons. They watched in shock as he stabbed Kagura through his chest.

Furious with Funamushi, everyone retaliated. He initially repelled them with his Water Release, but Boruto activated his Kāma and landed a Rasengan, prompting a Funato retreat. Kagura's wound was too severe, and he died after asking everyone to protect the village. After Kagura's funeral, Boruto and Kawaki wished to pursue the Funato. However, everyone agreed to follow Sarada's orders, who decided to wait on the village as Funamushi was certain to return, still wishing for revenge. Later, Boruto thought back to his time with Kagura, and was approached by the rest of Team 7, who were concerned about his earlier Kāma use. He assured them that Amado's drugs were still working as he remained in control, and that he had no intention of relying on Momoshiki's power. While making repairs at the village, Boruto wished to pursue the Funato and counterattack while they were still weak. When food had to be rationed, Boruto and the others agreed not to eat so the villagers could. Boruto later met with Kawaki at Kagura's grave, where he told Kawaki about Kagura's life, and the two reaffirmed their desire to avenge him.

Boruto and Metal waited for Denki and Iwabee to return, but the children came back without them, and informed everyone of their capture by the Funato. While the villagers hid again, Iwana and Yamame asked Boruto to avenge Kagura. When Buntan asked about how to deal with Funamushi's Water Release, Boruto commented it seemed familiar, and asked Mitsuki about Suigetsu's Hydrification Technique, getting confirmation that while using it, Suigetsu became vulnerable to Lightning Release. The next day, the Funato attacked again, harder than before despite their smaller numbers, Kawaki having to pull Boruto out of the way of a sacrificial attack. Funamushi arrived and attacked Boruto, taunting him about Denki and Iwabee. Boruto exploited the timing of Funamushi's jutsu to attack with him Lightning Release, but it began to rain, allowing Funamushi to use his Water Release: Raging Jellyfish. Knowing he was still injured from their previous fight, Boruto wanted to get close to land a Rasengan on him. Team 7 drew Funamushi's attention while Hebiichigo immobilised him with Nuibari. He was able to break free and land a fatal blow on Hebiichigo, but Boruto was also able to land his attack. On the ground, Funamushi was able to grab Boruto just like Kagura, but Buntan killed him before he could do the same, avenging Kagura. Hebiichigo died from her injuries, and they mourned her after burying her besides Kagura.

Two days later, while searching for Iwabee and Denki with Metal, Team 7 discovered an injured Funato soldier, who they brought back as a potential source of information. Boruto later confessed to Sarada that avenging Kagura didn't make him feel better. The following day, Denki and Iwabee returned, and Boruto was incredulous of their theory on why Funamushi didn't kill them or use them in negotiations. That night, while on watch, Boruto was attacked by Gokai and Kobuna. He defeated Gokai, but was stunned to learn Kobuna was Funamushi's son, who wanted to avenge his father. Sarada arrived in time to protect him, and he told her about Kobuna. At the village, this sparked a discussion on how to deal with the Funato. Boruto was shocked to learn that Seiren's younger brother was Ikada, blaming himself for their situation. As everyone began struggling to believe this news, they learned from the radio that Ikada was indeed a member of the Funato, having joined his father in an all-out attack on Kirigakure.

As Boruto was mortified to know that he drove Ikada down this path, Mitsuki helped him regain his composure. Boruto voiced his desire to stop the war and save Ikada from his hatred, Sarada and Mitsuki joining him in heading to Kirigakure to aid the Mizukage. While they were initially stopped by Buntan and Kyohō, who insisted they must face the Funato, Denki and Iwabee fended them off, allowing Team 7 escape, except for Kawaki, who remained firm that war was inevitable and decided to stay. Boruto also carried Hiramekarei to return it to the village. After an initial struggle to get help sailing, Kajiki agreed to help them get to Chōjūrō. Along the way, Kajiki expressed disapproval of both the Funato and Kirigakure. Meeting up with Kirigakure's fleet, Boruto returned Hiramekarei to Chōjūrō, and voiced his desire to end the conflict without further bloodshed. Chōjūrō stressed the Shinonome 1 station had to be protected, and Boruto noted that significant rejection of it throughout the Land of Water seemed to be at the heart of the Funato uprising. Misuno and Chōjūrō recounted how Araumi had Isari killed when he attempted to negotiate peace between them, so Boruto instead asked for time to try talking to Ikada, explaining what they had been through before learning he was a Funato. Chōjūrō agreed to let Boruto make his attempt at peace, and he left on Kajiki's ship. He asked his team-mates to trust him and cover for him.

Team 7 approached the main Funato warship, but Ikada destroyed it with his Power of the Sea Dragon. Boruto pleaded with Ikada to stop the war before more people died, but Ikada derided him, finding the Mizukage untrustworthy. He also tried to remind Ikada of his former dreams, but Ikada said he abandoned those dreams when his sister died. Ikada brought Kobuna to confront Boruto, and he apologised for killing Funamushi, though it had no effect. Ikada offered to stop the war if Boruto brought him the Mizukage's head, but Boruto offered his own life instead. Ikada agreed to the terms if his team-mates agreed not to interfere or take revenge afterwards. Sarada and Mitsuki protested it, but Boruto made them promise to honour his choice. He allowed himself to be beaten by the Funato soldiers without retaliation. Ikada prepared a ramp for Boruto to be pushed off the ship into the raging waters, which would kill him, and allowed Kobuna to be the one to deliver the final push. Boruto apologised to Kobuna, and commented on how similar they were when people dear to them got killed. Kobuna hesitated to push Boruto, who jumped off himself. When Sarada and Mitsuki refused to take action despite their feelings, Ikada jumped and saved Boruto himself, and declared the war over. Gokai attempted to rile the Funato soldiers to continue the war, but they shared Ikada's desire to stop fighting, Boruto pointing out that their future didn't need to be the same as their past. Later, Boruto and Ikada talked as friends again atop the mobile fortress.

Following the Funato surrender, the Konoha-nin returned home to report. There, they learned from the Mizukage of how the Funato lost much influence in the country. As Boruto asked about Ikada's fate, Kawaki voiced that he deserved punishment as an enemy commander. Boruto insisted that Ikada was a good person and was key in ending the war. As Kawaki stormed off annoyed at Boruto, Naruto approached Boruto, commending him for his efforts in the war and sympathising with Boruto's new view. He encouraged Boruto to make up with Kawaki. Upon finding Kawaki, their attitudes quickly came to blows with each other. Ultimately, the two collapsed against each other. Working off their aggression, the two talked out their differences. Naruto approached them, telling Boruto about Ikada's lenient punishment under Kajiki's watch. Boruto joined his father and Kawaki for ramen. Boruto later went to a family vacation on a hot spring inn. He encouraged Kawaki to have fun, despite ending up competing with Kawaki over small things. The two of them lost on ping-pong to Naruto and Hinata, so Boruto took Kawaki on a stamp hunt through the inn, with Kawaki teasing him over being scared over the spooky aspects of the hunt. They were scared to see a ghost standing behind them on a photo they got as a prize for the stamp hunt.

Team 7 was later assigned a mission in investigating attacks on former Wind Release user shinobi. Kawaki suggested having all potential targets who fit the description guarded, but Boruto pointed out there were too many people for that solution to scale well. They later discovered Hibiki and Kodama were behind the attacks, looking for a man with a scar on his chest who killed their father. Later, Boruto was roped into helping Kakashi with shopping errands. During which, they stumbled into a feud between old town and new city residents over fireworks displays. Sabure from the new city and Yubeshi from the old town wanted the dispute resolved so they could get married with their grandfathers in attendance. Boruto was committed to help them, and secured Kakashi's assistance when Yubeshi promised him a rare first edition of an Icha Icha volume, with an extended ending. They discovered the origins of the feud, and Boruto tried to reconcile them by having them share a dango shortcake recipe the grandfathers came up with when they were in better terms, but in only highlighted the start of the dispute. Boruto was unsure when Kakashi arranged from the firework displays to be a competition between the two groups, but he secretly switched the fireworks, taking everyone's heart out of the rivalry, and allowing the two sides to make up. The next day, Boruto tended to Kakashi's hurting back while he took his time reading the first edition copy, sure that it would feature a happy ending, just like how Sabure and Yubeshi were making married.

 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

In the anime, Boruto found it off that Kawaki enrolled in the Academy despite already being a genin and part of Team 7. When Himawari commented that Kawaki was acting strange in the Academy, Boruto wondered if he was nervous for some reason. He assured Kawaki that Team 7 would be fine while he was gone. One day, Team 7 was asked to teach a class as special instructors. The class was delighted to see them, except for Kawaki. He demonstrated the Rasengan, which greatly interested them, and teased Kawaki about being his teacher. Team 7 had them do an exercise that lead to a divide in the class, when he hoped they'd realise they were suppose to share a reward with their friends instead. He failed to reconcile the two main students leading the conflict by having them play Extreme: Shinobi Picture Scrolls. After their homeroom teacher was able to reconcile everyone, Boruto declined an invitation by Shino to teach again.

When the Academy held a festival, Boruto attended it, interested in seeing Kawaki in a play. At a target booth, Boruto got collected prizes with his skills as shinobi. When the festival received a terrorist threat, Boruto and the other former students offered to help solve the issue, removing explosive tags around the area. Later, after it was revealed that Kawaki was only attending the Academy to complete a mission, Boruto was surprised to learn that Himawari still hadn't officially decided to become a shinobi, but saw the Academy as an opportunity to experience new things.

 Labyrinth Game Arc 

In the anime, Boruto accompanied Sasuke when he needed to look for a replacement messenger hawk, hoping to acquire a famed Senri Hawk. Upon meeting Maruta, who tended them, they learned Maruta couldn't risk taking them to the hawks habitat over concerns of being followed by Paradise representatives, dealers of rare and endangered animals who had began threatening him to acquire the hawks. When Sasuke visited Paradise under the pretence of being a customer, Boruto recognised Tentō in a photo, lending credence to their claim. When their leader Mozu Shitakiri admitted to being interested in the Senri Hawks, Boruto accused her of attacking Maruta's facility, though she pointed out they had no evidence. Mozu ordered them to leave, and gave them a warning to pass along to Maruta. The next day, while Maruta took Sasuke to the hawk habitat, Boruto stayed behind and ended up befriending Mozu's son Tsuzura, who was trying to readjust Yuki a rare white hawk to hunt in the wild. He offered to help, getting a book hawk rearing from Maruta's facility, and reading to him upon learning that Tsuzura's mother refused to teach him to read. Boruto began teaching him to read and write, and the two exchanged messages through Yuki. The next day, he continued helping Tsuzura, but was discovered by Mozu, who blamed him for putting ideas on his head, and whose underling threatened to arrest Boruto. Tsuzura left with Mozu to spare Boruto.

When Sasuke and Maruta returned, Boruto informed them of Tsuzura's situation, hoping to interfere, but Sasuke refused despite having his own opinions about Paradise. The next day, upon leaning that Yuki would be sold to a taxidermist, Boruto rushed back, arriving in time to protect Tsuzura, who tried to flee with Yuki, from the security officer. Mozu threatened Boruto with life in prison if he returned to Paradise, but Sasuke offered his new hawk in exchange for Yuki. On their way back to the train, Boruto tried to comfort Tsuzura. When Sasuke's hawk returned after freeing Mozu's captive animals, Boruto praised Sasuke, alerting the security officer of his identity. Tsuzura stood up to his mother, Sasuke and Boruto taking him to become Maruta's apprentice. Sasuke instructed Boruto to return to Konoha alone, so his actions against Mozu wouldn't reflect on it, choosing to go look for Kara's last Inner, Code. 

On his way back to Konoha, Boruto slept on the Thunder Train, but woke up confined along the other passengers. Boruto talked to some of the captives, some of whom tried and failed to get out. Ōga arrived and explained his goal of putting them through experiments to determine their ability to avoid death. When one of them gets killed, Boruto attacked Ōga, but the Ōga with them turned out to be a puppet. One of the captives accidentally triggered the first experiment, involving falling platforms. After getting acquainted with fellow Konoha-nin Kiseru Gankubi and Yatsume, Boruto tried to save as many people as possible, and despite saving some, others perished during the experiment. Subsequently, Boruto criticised Rokuro for sacrificing others to ensure his own survival. 

While waiting for the next experiment, he argued for cooperation. The next experiment involved traversing with a candle whose flame was connected to their lives, which could be stolen. Through cooperation, Boruto was able to lead most other captives through the experiment, although some perished as a result of their candles melting down. When they reached a slow moving elevator, the group deduced that Ōga intended them to steal each other's candle to last through its ascent. Recalling the rules of how the candles worked, Boruto had the remaining captives with him combine what remained of their candles into a single, long-lasting candle shared by all, which allowed them all to survive the elevator ride. After reaching their destination, Boruto's group met up with Rokuro's group, who had sacrificed some of its members to steal their candles. Despite despising Ōga, he conceded that Ōga stood by his rules.

Before the next experiment, the group discussed their dreams, Boruto sharing his of emulating his teacher. When the experiment began, in a room with a collapsing ceiling, Boruto noticed how switches around the room affect the room and ceiling, and argues how Ōga expected them to act. One of them caused alcoves to appear, Boruto allowing Yatsume to take one in gratitude for saving him in the first experiment and because she injured herself trying to stop the ceiling. When he had to put out Kiseru's Fire Release with his Water Release, he noticed the water draining, and attempted to break through the space under the floor. He convinced Batta to act against Ōga's expectation, and she found a weak spot on the floor where his attack would work better. The extra space allowed them all to survive, Ōga praising him. As they left the room, Batta approached him and revealed her suspicion that Ōga might have another minion among them, revealing that Kiseru had a working communication device he kept hidden.

She explained how the story about his home village had an inconsistency in it, but he remained sceptical, as Kiseru was the first to help him break the floor. When they returned, the next experiment had been picked, Shamo handing him a card picked from him. Each person had a card with a number from 1 to 8, and they had to collect enough to sum 7 within two hours to cross a gate. Boruto's was 6, and he quickly joined up with Shamo, admonishing him for readily showing his 8. The two eventually met up with Yatsume and Namua, who figured out how to maximise the number of people who can cross the gate, Boruto further improving the strategy by thinking of how to exchange cards. They found Batta and Fugō's corpses, and Boruto at first thinks they might have fallen to traps to sow discord among them. Rokuro reached them, and tried to kill everyone to expedite Ōga's goal of a single survivor. He took Shamo hostage, but Boruto's Vanishing Rasengan allowed him to escape, Namua joining the fight as well. However, Rokuro infected Namua with his jutsu, forcing him to fight Boruto, until Boruto's kindness helped Namua break through Rokuro's control, by reminding him of the priest who helped him change. Namua protected Boruto from Rokuro's attack, allowing Boruto to defeat him, which Rokuro himself admitted. In defiance of Ōga's plans, Boruto still gave Rokuro enough cards to cross the gate, who in turn revealed that Batta and Fugō were already dead when he claimed their cards, leaving only Kiseru as the possible culprit. This prompted Boruto to share Batta's suspicion with them, and he decided to stay back to confront Boruto, noticing that the missing 7 card meant he still hadn't crossed the gate. Boruto and Kiseru spotted each other as Kiseru arrived.

Boruto confronted him about the deaths, Kiseru asking if the really trusted Rokuro over him. Boruto asked about the comm device, so Kiseru ran away from the gate, Boruto chasing him. When Boruto saw him with the device, he refused Kiseru's offered card. When Rokuro, Shamo, and Yatsume arrived and surrounded Kiseru with Boruto, Kiseru escaped underground with his Fire Release, and split them. Boruto stopped him as he was about to finish off Rokuro, forcing Kiseru's retreat. Boruto caught up with him attacking Yatsume, yelling at him to stop, before retreating again. A scarred Yatsumed asked him to stop Kiseru. Catching up with him, Boruto's accusations caused Kiseru to laugh as he realised something about their situation. The two fought, and Shamo arrived, trying to clear the situation. Boruto held back his attack, but Shamo was hit by Kiseru's, and handed Boruto the scroll with Kiseru's mission briefing. Kiseru couldn't trust anyone after being framed for the deaths, and stabbed Boruto, explaining the entire maze is genjutsu, arranging for him to wake up. Boruto woke up in a room, seeing everyone else in suspended animation.

Boruto failed to wake up other captives, and was met by Rokuro and Yatsume. He confirmed to Rokuro that Kiseru didn't work for Ōga, and explained the genjutsu nature of their imprisonment. They left to search for Ōga using a map and access card Yatsume discovered in the Kusa-nin Rokuro exposed as Ōga's minion. They eventually realised they were walking in circles, and Boruto was separated from the other two by a wall. He circled back after failing to break the wall, and found Yatsume defeated, having the map and card stolen by Rokuro. He helped her around, but she was eventually affected by Rokuro's parasite, and begged him to take her out. When he realised from the pain of her attacks that they were still under genjutsu, she dropped the ruse and revealed herself as the true Ōga, explaining who she was and what she wanted. As the construct began to collapse around them, Boruto refused to abandon or kill her to escape the genjutsu, her reaching out to him being enough for her to wake up on her own and free everyone. Boruto reached out to Kiseru's team with his communication device, and was surprised when Mitsuki and Sarada answered, giving them his rough location. Shamo called out to him, giving him a latter addressed to him. Ōga said he sparked in him a new dream, and asked him to guess what it was until they met again, promising to visit him. Boruto only told Shamo it was from Ōga, and teased him by refusing to share anything else.

 Code's Assault Arc 

In following days, Boruto was taken off of active duty to monitor his Kāma. During which, Boruto was regularly interviewed by the media about his victory over Isshiki and saving several lives from the invader's attack on the village. While Boruto became a celebrity, he was concerned about his future. He was then met with by Kawaki, whose proper arm was restored by Amado. He noted there may be a way to save Boruto. He tells Boruto about Code, an Ōtsutsuki fanatic who failed to become Isshiki's Vessel like Kawaki. Despite the failure, he obtained a White Kāma and became even more powerful than Delta or Boro. Kawaki suggested finding a way for Boruto to create his own Kāma use it on Code to resurrect with Code as his vessel. Later, Naruto offered Boruto medication that might suppress his Ōtsutsuki transformation. Quickly deciding he would take them, Boruto swallowed one despite not knowing the potential side effects, leading to Naruto scolding him. Later, Boruto's team was joined by Kawaki for a training session, leading to the genin sparing against him.

A week later, Boruto observed no changes to himself since beginning to take Amado's medication in hopes of halting his Ōtsutsuki transformation. He then joined his family in hosting a dinner party to officially welcome Kawaki as a member of the household. Acknowledging Kawaki's pursuit to master ninjutsu, Boruto decided to give Kawaki his forehead protector, telling Kawaki he expected to get it back after Kawaki earned his own. Later, while collecting cards, he voiced his annoyance at the continued surveillance on him. His friends noted how limited the overall surveillance really was, but Boruto remained annoyed by it all. That night, Boruto sensed Kawaki had left the house and used a shadow clone as a stand in. Wondering why none of the sensory guards picked up on this, Boruto wondered why only he could detect the deception. Not wanting Kawaki to get into trouble, he confronted the clone. He forced the issue and exposed Kawaki's ruse to his father. Against both Naruto's and Kawaki's wishes, Boruto went after Kawaki, as he was the only who knew the direction Kawaki was going, hoping that Konoha would track him to Kawaki.

Boruto arrived just in time to stop Code from taking Kawaki with him, kicking him aside before scolding Kawaki for his recklessness. Boruto and Kawaki argued over each other's actions. Kawaki was willing to leave with Code, but Boruto refused it. Despite Kawaki wishing to do it in order to protect Naruto, Boruto said what he was doing was protect Kawaki. Code introduced himself to Boruto, revering him as Momoshiki's vessel, but still intending to sacrifice him to cultivate a God Tree. Boruto activated his Kāma and began fighting Code, who maintained the upper hand. He deemed Boruto an amateur with the Kāma, and explained he was able to draw on the battle experience of the Ōtsutsuki who branded him. He continued fighting, which to see Momoshiki's power, until Boruto drew deeper on his Kāma's power. However, Boruto remained in control over his body, something he attributed to Amado's medicine. He began pressuring Code, who considered him a high quality sacrifice for the growth of a God Tree. As he decided to go all out against Code, Boruto's body suddenly gave out, and he collapsed in pain.

Momoshiki's soul appeared for him as time stopped, and mocked him for thinking Amado's drugs would stop the Kāma from extracting. He took control over Boruto's body, and continued fighting Code, as well as Naruto and Shikamaru when they arrived. He attempted to kill Naruto, but was surprised to see Kawaki absorbing his attack with a new Kāma. Using Isshiki's jutsu, Kawaki fought Momoshiki with the intent to kill him, even if it also killed Boruto. Reawakening, Boruto agreed with Kawaki's assessment, and pushed his father out of the way, allowing Kawaki to strike him through his chest. Code retreated after struggling to defeat Kawaki. Boruto woke up healed, to Naruto and Shikamaru's shock. Momoshiki manifested himself in a vision, explaining that his soul would vanish if his vessel was destroyed, so he saved Boruto by overwriting the remaining 18% of compressed data in the Kāma with Boruto's data, allowing for Boruto's resurrection, even if it prevented Momoshiki's. Boruto considered it a victory, but Momoshiki explained that even so, Boruto was now fully an Ōtsutsuki that Code could sacrifice to the Ten-Tails. Boruto asked if this was what he meant the first time he appeared in a vision, and Momoshiki revealed this was unrelated, though his first warning would soon come to pass.

 Omnipotence Arc 

Back in Konoha, Boruto and Kawaki met at the Hokage Rock, with Boruto explaining Momoshiki's warning, and how Kawaki viewed Boruto's life as a threat to Naruto. As Kawaki walked away, Boruto vowed to prove Momoshiki was wrong about his prophecy. Later, Boruto related his experience to Amado, Sai, and Katasuke. Amado was concerned he was still liable to be taken over by Momoshiki's consciousness, but Boruto expressed feeling different from before, and having a better grasp on it, making the drugs he was taking before unnecessary. Under Shikamaru's instruction, Boruto didn't tell Sarada and Mitsuki that Kawaki had killed him, instead saying it was Code in a moment of poor self-control and lack of thinking ahead. Sasuke arrived, agreeing with Sarada's assessment that Boruto should always be accompanied as a precaution against another attack by Code now that he was a suitable sacrifice for the Ten-Tails.

Later, Sasuke apologised to Boruto for not keeping his promise to deal with him if Momoshiki took over, which required Kawaki to step in. Boruto insisted that he and Kawaki were in agreement, but Sasuke stressed that whoever killed him would be hated, so keeping it from the public was necessary as many already disapproved of Kawaki. Boruto attempted to return Sasuke's forehead protector, but Sasuke gifted it to him, as Boruto said it helped him with his resolve. Boruto immediately put it on. Ino reported to Sasuke of Code and Ada's invasion, and Sasuke informed Boruto, so the two left to help with it. They arrived outside Amado's lab, which was ordered to be locked down so no one would be affected by Ada's control. After Code and Ada left taking Amado with them, Boruto listened as Shikamaru explained Ada's alluring ability and speculated on the other cyborg that Code employed in his battle the previous night. When Shikamaru summoned Team 7 for a mission, Hinata cried, concerned that Boruto might not come back this time. Boruto tried to assuage her fear and promised he'd return. Outside, Momoshiki manifested himself to Boruto, and berated him for making such a promise. He teased Boruto about how soon he'd lose the will to live, which would allow Momoshiki to permanently possess his body, essentially reincarnating, and Boruto became agitated, vowing never to let that happen before Momoshiki dissipated. Angry, he rushed to answer his summon from Shikamaru, puzzling Sarada and Mitsuki with his attitude.

At the Hokage's office, Boruto and Kawaki quickly got past the awkwardness of seeing each other since Kawaki killed him. Shikamaru and Konohamaru review Boruto's and Kawaki's Ōtsutsuki-related risks, and informed them of what transpired between Amado, Code, and Ada, as well as her entrancing ability. When they revealed they'd have to live with Ada and Daemon, Boruto and Kawaki were unenthusiastic about it. Boruto wondered why she'd be interested in Kawaki, who was immune to her ability, leading Sumire to speculate she wanted a genuine experience rather than a compelled one. Shikamaru further explained about her clairvoyance, and that Boruto was to act as a mediator between Kawaki and the siblings. The rest of the team would watch them from afar, including to report if Boruto was still acting as himself. Momoshiki's consciousness listened besides Boruto.

As part of the setup, Boruto and Kawaki were to live in a large, expensive house with Ada. Kawaki argued with him over his cheery attitude. When Boruto heard a noise from where Konohamaru was, he was surprised by Daemon, who introduced himself as Ada's little brother. He attacked Boruto and Kawaki, knocking them both out. When he woke up, Ada apologised for the harsh greeting, Daemon wishing to make it clear he was stronger to discourage acting against Ada. Shikamaru contacted them through the comm system, asking if they've met. Boruto replied Daemon gave them a baptism through fire.

Boruto listened along everyone else as Amado explained Ada's and Daemon's abilities, their shinjutsu origins in Shibai Ōtsutsuki, and his goal of using Kawaki's Kāma to resurrect his daughter Akebi. Boruto was relieved that Amado's goal wasn't as nefarious as he thought, and was contacted by Momoshiki, their thoughts now accessible to one another. Momoshiki confirmed some of Amado's claims, but was suspicious as Ada's entrancing wasn't a shinjutsu, and asked not to let Kawaki know about him, wishing not to fight him again. Boruto suddenly had a vision of Konoha shinobi, including his friends, fighting Kawaki.

He was confused by them, and recalling Momoshiki's previous warning, wondered if they're visions of the future. After the meeting was done, Boruto thought about the visions and the warning in bed. The next day, he asked Ada why she picked Kawaki over him. Daemon teased him about it, and Ada revealed it was because of his age. When Kawaki deduced that Ada sold Boruto out to Code so she could have Kawaki, Boruto complained about his situation when Kawaki and Daemon argued. After Ada asked for Sarada and Sumire to join them, wishing to talk to girls, Boruto watched them from afar, and later defeated Daemon in a video game. He heard Momoshiki's thoughts, having identified Ada's entrancing ability, but was frustrated when Momoshiki refused to share details. Kawaki noticed his expression, and realising he was talking to Momoshiki, addressed Momoshiki himself, telling him to come out. Boruto tried to play it down, but Kawaki was determined. When Shikamaru convinced Kawaki to stop it, he left, and Boruto followed him, losing track of Kawaki when he shrank himself. Boruto could still sense his presence, but couldn't pinpoint his location, so Shikamaru had him accompany Ada, who wanted to go out. He felt out of place while Ada and the girls shopped, and was teased by Daemon. When Daemon rushed out, intrigued by an intensity he felt from Himawari, Boruto explained she wasn't even a shinobi, and disapproved when he thought that Daemon had a crush on her.

Upon learning that Kawaki was somehow responsible for his parents vanishing, Boruto rushed off to look for him. Kawaki tried sealing Boruto away at the Hokage Rock, but Boruto fought it off with his Kāma. Boruto tried to reason with him, but Kawaki was determined to kill over him being an Ōtsutsuki. Sarada arrived to help him, but Boruto wanted her to run. His right eye got slashed protecting her from Kawaki's attack, leaving it permanently scarred and resulting in Boruto losing the sight in his right eye just in time for Mitsuki, Konohamaru, Shikamaru, and Sasuke to arrive. While Konohamaru was checking on him, Momoshiki manifested through Boruto, absorbing Shikamaru's jutsu, which was stopping Kawaki from shrinking himself free and escaping. When Boruto regained control, Momoshiki addressed him, teasing him over his lost eye, and declaring that the future he foretold had begun.

Noticing how Mitsuki lost his cool over the assault, Boruto asked Sarada to accompany him. After a light flashed in the sky, Momoshiki sneered at Boruto, revelling in his and Kawaki's exchanged histories. Sarada and Mitsuki found Boruto, Mitsuki attacking Boruto with Sage Mode. Boruto was confused by Mitsuki's accusation of having done something to Naruto, and flees. Momoshiki explained how his past and Kawaki's were swapped in everyone's mind through Ada's true shinjutsu ability, teasing him all along. Team 10 ambushed him, asking why he would betray the village after they took him in. Boruto refused Momoshiki's offer to take over and kill them, despite his constant nagging. Sasuke rescued Boruto, and they both left the village. Boruto asked about the rescue, and Sasuke explained that despite remembering his own history with Kawaki, some details didn't add up, like Boruto having his old forehead protector, and Momoshiki's presence in him. Since he couldn't trust himself, he trusted Sarada, telling Boruto to validate her belief. Boruto mocked Momoshiki as he continue to needle him about the situation. 

When Ada arrived with Daemon, she apologised to Boruto, and he explained the real nature of her ability to entrance people. She was impressed by how calm he was, and he admitted that the situation made him empathise more with Kawaki, having learned what his past must have been like. Sasuke pointed out to him that Naruto had been similarly shunned, but changed everyone's minds through his actions, and so should him. Boruto refused to give into despair, stressing his own heritage, and his determination to reduce it all to a siblings' quarrel. Impressed, Ada attempts to make up for it by promising not to look for them until they decide to return to Konoha. She asked her to thank Sarada for sending Sasuke, and Daemon told him to grow strong so he has someone who can fight him at full strength, though Boruto believed that to be impossible. Sasuke cautioned them to leave, as Konoha would be in pursuit, and Boruto is determined to prove his identity.

 New Era: Part II 
A year after Boruto's departure from Konohagakure, he had completed learning virtually everything that Sasuke could teach him, though he encouraged Boruto to keep seeking new skills and directions to aid in his growth. Soon after, Boruto and Sasuke were attacked by Code, also affected by the memory swap from Ada's Omnipotence, and his Claw Grimes. During the battle, Boruto used his Kāma, but doing so caused him to feel as if he was on the verge of ceasing to exist. To save Boruto, Sasuke sacrificed himself by fending off the attacks, ultimately being consumed by one of the Grime and as it turned into a small tree. Boruto took up his master's sword in a quest to save him.

Sometime later, while being hunted by Suna-nin, Boruto was approached by a toad that offered to help. Upon touching it, he was teleported to Koji Kashin. He explained how even though he too was affected by Omnipotence, he already knew about the event coming thanks to his inherited shinjutsu, Ten Directions. He warned Boruto about the coming future of the planet's destruction if the Claw Grimess were not stopped. He offered to help Boruto, using his future knowledge to teach him all the techniques he would learn in the different potential futures and accelerate his growth, as well as save Sasuke. Believing Koji's tale, Boruto accepted the man's offer, but made it clear he will not aid him in killing Kawaki, as he still is determined to reunite his entire family with Kawaki included. 

Over time, as Koji continued training Boruto, the young missing-nin asked him why he didn't just reveal what he knew about the future to more people for help. Koji explained that the more people who know about the future, the less likely it is to happen. This is because they would no longer act on their natural instincts—instincts that would have led to that potential future—making it harder to steer events toward the desired outcome.

 Boruto's Return Arc 
  

Two years later, Code attacked Konoha, hoping to smoke out Boruto through his continued loyalty for his former friends. His efforts succeeded as Boruto suddenly appeared before Code, mocking Code's disgusting attitude. After cutting down six grimes around him, Boruto told Code to call off his grimes, as using the Ten-Tails to create the grime changed them in ways that he would eventually lose control of and endanger everyone. When Code refused, Boruto unleashed his Rasengan: "Uzuhiko", disorienting him and causing him to be unable to land any counterattacks. Boruto explained the nature of his jutsu, and offered to rescind it if he revealed the location of the Ten-Tails.

They were interrupted by Kawaki's attack and the arrival of Team 10 and Himawari. Code managed to escape through a Claw Grime, but Boruto had planted a toad on Code, which reported that Code had indeed returned to the Ten-Tails' pen. Quickly teleporting to the Ten-Tail's dimension with the Flying Thunder God Technique, he was surprised that the Ten-Tails suddenly disappeared. While confronting Code, a mysterious being resembling Bug appeared. While Code was confused by this, Boruto began explaining the truth, that it was a Claw Grime. The Bug-lookalike quickly attacked Boruto, constantly altering its form to pressure Boruto. Boruto removed the Uzuhiko from Code, asking him for help. Before Boruto could explain more, several more people resembling Claw Grime victims appeared. They explained that they are God Trees that become self-aware. As the God Trees attacked Boruto, he asked Code for help. Code however chose to let things play out on their own if it meant Boruto still died and the Chakra Fruit was created, teleporting away. Realising he couldn't win, Boruto teleported back to Sasuke's tree. There, he was approached by Koji, who chastised Boruto for his recklessness before they began planning their next move.

Later, Boruto returned to the village again to talk with Sarada, reluctantly telling her about her father's current state, and received a pleasant surprise as she her long-lost friend with a hug. As he filled Sarada and Sumire in on the topic of the sentient God Trees, Shikamaru made clandestine contact with him through Ino's help, though Boruto remained skeptical of his motives. They were cut short by Mitsuki's attack. Boruto escaped and flew outside the village though not before swearing to Sarada that he will return to her. While still in range to communicate with Shikamaru, he was suspicious of the Hokage's offer of help, but became interested when Shikamaru admitted that the possibility of his memories of Boruto and Kawaki being altered began looking more and more plausible. Before they could continue, Boruto prepared to fight Mitsuki again, who was tracking him.

Mitsuki, in Sage Mode, attacked Boruto, who easily countered his every attack, eventually holding him at swordpoint. Mitsuki was indifferent to it and told him to simply finish him, though Boruto withdrew his weapon. Boruto saw through Mitsuki's despair of Kawaki no longer shining the sun on him, and claimed to be the sun he was missing. Incensed, Mitsuki restrained Boruto with a snake, but couldn't bring himself to attack, even if Boruto wasn't defending himself. Boruto clarified he had no intention of killing Kawaki, and revealed that Naruto and Hinata were alive. He thought that Mitsuki was entirely capable of shining on his own, but invited him to come find him if he insisted on needing a sun to provide illumination. Later somewhere more private, Boruto resumed his talk with Shikamaru, explaining that trying to remember about Omnipotence was pointless, as it would overwrite his knowledge of, but credited Shikamaru for reaching the conclusion by himself, and thus would retain some level of knowledge. Shikamaru recommended that in Boruto's situation, his priority would be to kill Kawaki and rescue Naruto, though Boruto denied it, hoping for reconciliation with his fallen brother. Shikamaru respected his decision, but stated for the time being Boruto would need to remain being hunted so as not to expose Kawaki into taking drastic action. 

As Boruto explained the nature of the sentient God Trees, he was alerted by Shikamaru that Kawaki was approaching him. Deciding to leave for the moment, Boruto teleported away. Later, as Boruto was inspecting his Kāma. Koji alerted Boruto to the God Trees attacking Konoha. After teleporting there, Boruto was connected again to Shikamaru via telepathy. Shikamaru explained that two God Trees were after Himawari because she somehow possessed the Nine-Tails' chakra. Before they could discuss the matter more, Delta and Kawaki found Boruto. As Kawaki attacked Boruto, he easily dodged the assault and took Kawaki down with a single punch. Boruto chastised Kawaki for not having properly trained in the last three years. Angered by this, Kawaki's Kāma activated. This also caused Boruto's Kāma to activate. This prompted Boruto to retreat. Soon after, Boruto rushed to help Himawari, who was revealed to be the new Nine-Tails Jinchūriki, as she was subdued by Jūra. After securing her, he was contacted by a summoning toad to teleport to another marker to aid Sarada. He arrived with Himawari in time to save Sarada from being consumed by Hidari. 

As he managed to repel Hidari, Boruto asked Konohamaru to look after the unconscious Himawari. While Hidari retreated into his Claw Marks, Konohamaru demanded to know what the "traitor" was doing back in the village. Sarada managed to convince Konohamaru to work with Boruto against Hidari, but then asked Boruto if Hidari was related to her father being consumed by a Claw Grime. He solemnly admitted it. Hidari then returned with several Claw Grime to aid him. Through the chaos of the Claw Grimes' assault, Hidari continued his efforts to consume Sarada, prompting Boruto and the others to guard her. Realising his best bet to stop Hidari was his Rasengan: Uzuhiko, he requested the others to buy him some time in maxing out its power. As Boruto prepared his technique, Hidari found an opening to capture Sarada. She however countered with her Chidori Current to paralyse him. She then hurled the foe to Boruto, who was forced to use his technique before it was finished. While able to subdue Hidari from the impact, the God Tree tried to escape into his Claw Marks, only for them to be shrunk by Kawaki. He then proceeded to obliterate Hidari. 

In the remains, Boruto found Hidari's Thorn Soul Bulb. He contacted Koji, who confirmed that it was the target. When Boruto was asked what the item was, he merely said it will help him save Sasuke. Suddenly, Boruto was sniped down by a blast from Jūra. While missing his vitals, Boruto quickly fell. Jūra then proceeded to retrieve the bulb and retreated to revive Hidari. As Boruto was hallucinating about first joining with Koji, the Konoha-nin restrained him with special chakra-suppressing cuffs for question. Kawaki also found the spy toad on Boruto and destroyed it.

After Boruto awoke, he found himself in the interrogation room with Konohamaru and Ibiki Morino. Once told that his friends were fine, he revealed what the sentient God Trees are, but refused to reveal his source. The Konoha elders spoke up on the communication, noting that Boruto was already sentenced to death for killing the Seventh Hokage. Boruto however revealed that Naruto and his wife are alive. When talking proved pointless, Ibiki began brutalising the boy for answers. When that failed, Shikamaru called in Mitsuki to help with his venom. The boy instead angrily tackled Boruto. Secretly, Mitsuki told Boruto where his stuff was and removed the cuffs. Boruto proclaimed that he still viewed the village as his allies and teleported away to reclaim his stuff and leave.

As Boruto contemplated on the Hokage Rock, he was found by Kawaki. He asked his adopted brother why Boruto did not reveal the truth. Boruto replied that it would simply cause unnecessary conflict during the sentient God Trees danger. He revealed to Kawaki how his Kāma acted when last used despite Momoshiki being quiet for so long. To which, he reaffirmed to Kawaki that he should kill him if Momoshiki takes control again. As they talked about the God Trees, Boruto revealed to Kawaki that Amado has been suppressing Kawaki's true power. Kawaki still stood firm that all essence of the Ōtsutsuki must be eliminated to protect this planet, including Boruto and himself, but reluctantly admitted that he would need to work with Boruto to stop them. Before leaving, as it was agreed that even their combined full power was no match for Jura, Boruto gave Kawaki one of his special marker pins for his Flying Thunder God Technique. He explained to Kawaki that it would be needed for an emergency long-distance escape from the Human God Trees.

 Matsuri and Ryū Arc 

Days later, Team 7 joined Yodo and Araya to deal with Matsuri and Ryū in the Land of Wind, thanks to Koji's early warning. While Boruto and Koji relied on contact with Ada via toads to learn about the mission's progress, Boruto grew concerned for his friends. Koji forbade Boruto from going no matter what, as all futures that he intervened in this battle led to his death. This command proved difficult for Boruto to obey upon Ada telling them that Konohamaru was overwhelmed by Matsuri. After hearing Sarada's victory against Ryu and her awakening of her Mangekyo Sharingan's following Yodo being struck down, Boruto questioned Koji if all his plans would result in people dying and being sacrificed. Koji tries to change the subject, warning Boruto that Jura is aware of every action and event of the other Human God Trees, meaning Boruto's arrival against Matsuri will not go unnoticed. However, Boruto ignores it and as he realised Konohamaru will die without his help, teleporting in him to strike down Matsuri. This earns him Koji's anger as it attracts Jura to his location.

As Konohamaru is amazed at how easily Boruto defeated Matsuri, Boruto reminds his former sensei that the Thornsoul Bulb of Matsuri will free Moegi. Boruto is then alerted by the snipe assault of Jura, between struggling with long-distance teleportation, and wanting to make sure that his former allies would safely escape with Ryū and Matsuri's respective Thornsoul Bulbs, Boruto ran off as Jura followed him. Boruto then caught the foe by surprise by teleporting and hitting him with his Rasengan, forcing him to land. As he applauded Boruto's new level of skill, he began asking Boruto questions like the nature of love and how he had such deep knowledge of the Human God Trees. As Boruto refused to answer, Jura began assaulting him with several Wood Release attacks, turning the terrain against him. Ultimately, Boruto was captured by one construct. As Jura prepared to kill Boruto with Sasuke's sword, Boruto revealed a fake-out, letting himself be captured to unleash his Rasengan: "Uzuhiko" and teleport to hit the Human God Tree. While initially immobilised by the attack, Jura quickly deduced the mechanics behind it and was able to neutralise it.

With the injuries sustained from the Wood Release assault, it proved harder for Boruto to evade Jura's attacks. While managing to slice off Jura's foot with a well-timed manuever, the Human God Tree quickly pummeled Boruto into submission. Before Jura could finish Boruto, Kawaki arrived and saved Boruto. With a massive increase in might, Kawaki was quickly pressuring Jura. Boruto, too weak to fight, trusted Kawaki to handle it. As Jura continued his assault, Kawaki was decisively able to counter each attack and continue wearing the God Tree down. Boruto meanwhile struggled to keep his Kāma from activating. Despite the brutalising Jura endured, he casually applauded Kawaki's growth, noting that it came from feelings of love. As Kawaki proceeded to blast Jura, the God Tree defended himself with his Wood Release constructs, then using various vines to quickly repair his recent damage, revealing that he was restraining himself from using his full power. Calmly looking down on Kawaki, Jura voiced his suspicion that Naruto was still alive, convinced after seeing how Kawaki's reaction. 

Seeing that Jura was indeed too powerful to face for the time being, Boruto, with his Kāma subdued, approached Kawaki and teleported away with him. They arrived at Boruto's pin marker that Kawaki gave to Delta. There, they met up with her and Team 7. As Konohamaru was revealed to have Matsuri's Thornsoul Bulb to free Moegi, the group decided to return to Konoha. Later, Boruto watched from the sky as Moegi was safely freed from her tree prison. After checking on Himawari from afar to see how she was adjusting to being a Jinchūriki, Boruto decided to confront Momoshiki within his mental realm. Desperate with time quickly running out, Boruto offered the disembodied soul his body if he first helps him defeat the Human God Trees. Knowing Boruto's offer was genuine since they shared minds, Momoshiki agreed.

 Mamushi Arc 

Koji summoned Inojin to himself and Boruto after confirming that Inojin had feelings for Himawari and a desire to protect her. They requested his assistance, with Boruto assuring him that he would be returned to Konoha once their mission was complete. As Inojin aided Koji in secretly communicating with Shikamaru via the Mind Body Switch Technique during a meeting with the village elders, Inojin expressed concern that he had violated several protocols by facilitating the exchange. Boruto then instructed Inojin he needed to consider what was necessary in order to protect Himawari.

Koji later inquired about Boruto’s arrangement with Momoshiki, but Boruto avoided answering, which resulted in an argument between them. Boruto accused Koji of withholding information, including knowledge that his comrades would have to be sacrificed during the battle in the Land of Wind. Koji responded that his decisions had been intended to provoke Sarada’s Mangekyō Sharingan awakening, thereby preventing further casualties in the long term. Boruto decided to drop the subject and focus on Shikamaru's current problems.

After Shikamaru escaped suspicion of helping Boruto's escape, for the moment, Koji contacted Shikamaru again with Inojin's help. Koji explained how the Human God Tree, Mamushi, would attack the village soon. He warned everyone about his Division ability and how to best deal with it. When it was suggested they attack Mamushi before he arrives in the village, Koji said facing him in the village would be their best chance to defeat Mamushi because he would be more restricting in battle, fearing damage to Konoha and angering Jura, who came to enjoy the village's environment. 

Later, the group contacted Konohamaru with Inojin's aid, revealing the truth of the situation and asked for his help. Afterwards, Boruto teleported to Sumire, asking her to fix and improve Sasuke's sword using future technology from Koji that Sumire would have eventually discovered herself. She happily accepted helping Boruto, on the condition he stopped referring to her as "Class Rep", leaving him quite preplexed.

Days later, as Inojin completed the Mind Body Transmission Formation under Koji's guidance, Inojin made it clear that he still hadn't forgiven Boruto for his "betrayal". Boruto retorted that he would make Inojin pay if he ever hurt Himawari's feelings, leaving Inojin confused. He then teleported back to Sumire, who completed the modifications to his sword. He tested the sword out as Sumire explained its new properties.

Soon after, Shikamaru contacted Boruto, along with the secret team he assembled who acknowledged Boruto as an ally Inojin new technique. He explained that Mamushi had arrived in the village early and began coordinating the team against the threat. When Mamushi was found, Koji directed Boruto to the Human God Tree, quickly slashing the Divisions into pieces. However, the sheer numbers soon overwhelmed Boruto. As they unleashed a wave of flames on Boruto, he activated his Kāma to absorb the flames, noting that the mark still made him feel weird. With his enhanced power without Momoshiki's interference, Boruto swiftly began destroying dozens of Mamushis, all while Shikamaru kept updating Boruto on wherever more Mamushis appeared. 

At the same time, he had to deal with other Konoha-nin appearing and trying to capture him, still believing him to be a traitor.

Ultimately, as the Mamushis entered into hundreds, it was decided to use the backup plan of using Ada as bait. Boruto offered to bring the Mamushis to Ada, to which they followed him. Upon seeing their target, Ada flew away with Daemon on her back, luring the Mamushis away and to gather together. Once close enough, Daemon took to the ground and began his counterattack, striking several of them down quickly. As the divisions continued their relentless effort to consume Ada, Boruto and the Konoha team arrived to battle back against the threat. While soon getting the hundreds of Mamushis down to under 50, their plan to wipe them remainder out in one assault failed when Sarada fainted from overusing her Mangekyō Sharingan, to which Boruto caught her. The remaining Mamushis, now filled with survival instinct, multiplied into the thousands.

As the Mamushis continued their relentless pursuit of Ada, Boruto protected her from the. Then, Injoin was summoned to the field. With it deduced that the Divisions shared a hive mind, Inojin transferred his mind into a Mamushi, subsequently taking control of all the Mamushis. He directed killing intent on Daemon so he would reflect it back on the Mamushis and destroy their eyes, the only means for Mamushi to continue dividing. Following this, all the Mamushis collapsed and disintegrated. This also produced Mamushi's Thornsoul Bulb, which Boruto grabbed, intent on using it to free Bug.

As Boruto prepared to leave, Koji contacted him. He noted that Code is waiting for Boruto at Bug's prison. To which, if he goes, one of three possible futures will occur: Boruto will kill Code, Code will escape and take Sarada as a hostage against Boruto, or Code will escape and ultimately decide to join Boruto in his efforts to stop the Human God Trees. 

Boruto quickly arrived before Bug. Before he could use the Thornsoul Bulb, Code attack, but Boruto easily countered the sneak-attack. Boruto quickly saw the fear and desperation in Code, but the final Inner proclaimed he had a plan to kill Boruto before retreating. Boruto turned his attention back to Code, but the Thornsoul Bulb expired and rotted into dust. This led to Bug's death. Boruto lamented his failure, but Koji told him to it is okay as Bug was a bad person. Rather, he should take to heart the sight of one perishing.

 Flashforward 
In the wake of Konoha's destruction four years after the Ōtsutsuki attack on the village, a sixteen-year-oldStudio Pierrot Character Data Boruto faces off against Kawaki on the remnants of the obliterated Hokage Rock. With Kawaki threatening to end the era of shinobi, Boruto puts on his forehead protector and prepares to face him in battle while reminiscing about his past.

 In Other Media 
 Video Games 

 Trivia 
  is the Japanese pronunciation of the English word "bolt". His name is a reference to his first cousin, once removed; Neji, whose name means .
 When Boruto first appeared in the English Weekly Shōnen Jump, his name was transliterated as "Bolt". This was later corrected when the chapter was released in volume format.
 Masashi Kishimoto initially intended to name Naruto's son  or , both being names for seasoned bamboo shoots.Motion Comic NARUTO
 According to the character trivia in Boruto: Naruto Next Generations:
 His attributes are: 160 in dexterity, 140 in chakra, 130 in perception, 120 in strength, and 90 in intelligence and negotiation.
 He was also given a skill rating in these particular areas:
 Evasion: ★★★★☆
 Unarmed Hand-to-hand fighting: ★★★☆☆
 Ninjutsu: ★★★★☆
 School Trip Bloodwind Records and The Last Day at the Ninja Academy! further elaborated on this concept, and included the following skill ratings:
 Mental Resistance: ★★★★☆
 Espionage: ★★★☆☆
 Acrobatics: ★★★☆☆
 Drug Resistance: ★★★★☆
 Observation: ★★★☆☆
 Swimming: ★★★☆☆
 Masashi Kishimoto intended to give Boruto the Byakugan, but forgot to before releasing chapter 700.Article on cinemacafe (Japanese) He is later given a Byakugan in his right eye whenever he uses more of the Kāma's power. He is also given a different dōjutsu which he can manifest in the same eye.
 According to the novelisation of Boruto: Naruto the Movie, Boruto's hacked video game character is a Light Warrior who dual-wields two swords called "Shadow Weaver" and "Law Bringer".
 Masashi Kishimoto confirmed during a TV interview that he gave Sasuke the role of Boruto's master due to the inspiration of Akira Toriyama's Son Gohan and Piccolo.
 In an artwork for Boruto, Boruto is depicted with the Byakugan in both eyes and in a chakra mode similar to the Nine-Tails Chakra Mode.
 While born into the Uzumaki clan, Boruto and his sister are also recognised as legitimate members of the Hyūga clan due to their direct bloodline from their mother.Boruto episode 154

 Quotes 
 (To Shikadai) "A real shinobi can pull a prank without them even noticing!"Naruto chapter 700, page 4
 (To his father) "More importantly, as a father, today's an important day… you know what I mean, right? If you even forget about my little sister's birthday, then I'm not going to forgive you."
 (To his mother) "Now that you mentioned it, Grandpa used to be a Hokage too, but Dad says that when he was a kid, Grandpa Hokage wasn't even in this world anymore! That means Dad grew up not knowing a thing about this "enjoyable" father-son situation, didn't he?! Dad is the only one who doesn't know what this is like! If he was going to be like this, then it would've been better if he was never here from the beginning…"
 (To Sasuke) "Then, please, make me your disciple! There's someone I want to defeat no matter what!"
 (To his father) "A lecture… later? From you, Dad?! Will you really have the time to do that?! If you'd properly lectured me before then… now, things wouldn't have turned out like this!"
 (To his father) "It's fine if you're the same as you've been up until now. All I want is that when we get to meet up every now and then, don't give me lectures… from now on, tell me about your past instead, dad."
 (To Sarada about his goal for the future) "When you become Hokage, I'll be your right hand man. I'll guard you well. To me, the Hokage is just a path. Just because my grandpa and dad are Hokage, doesn't mean that I have to walk the same path. Sarada… What I'm really aiming for is to become a shinobi like your dad. I'm going to follow my own ninja way."
 (To Tentō) "I'm just like you. I wanted my dad to notice me. I did lots of stupid things to get his attention. Even got banned from being a ninja once. I'm able to be one now only because everyone forgave me. I might not be much now, but one day I want to be an amazing ninja who can support the Hokage."