Title: Bug
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Bug
-----------------------

was an Outer from the organisation Kara and a follower of an Ōtsutsuki Cult lead by Boro.

 Background 
At some point, Bug joined the secret society, Kara, and became a subordinate of the Inner Boro, which led him to also become a member of the Ōtsutsuki Cult. When Boro was instructed to dispose of Ada, he was affected by her powers of infatuation. Instead, he hid her inside his base, having Bug guard her. Her powers also automatically made Bug become infatuated with her.

 Personality 
While serving Boro, Bug was dutiful in following his leader's wishes. However, it might have been incited out of fear, as he questioned the validity of Code's suggestion on Boro's death, and showed no surprise at the mention of his and Jigen's deaths. Out of apprehension on Code's stern look, Bug agreed to lead him to the cyborgs, disregarding whether Boro is truly dead. Bug is also money-minded, expecting payment for showing Code the cyborgs. He did not like being ordered around, as while he obeyed Ada's order to serve them drinks, he insulted her within his mind. Ada notes that his infatuation to Ada being much more mellow than most comes from his natural scared demeanour. Despite being greedy in terms of payment, Bug is also cautious, finding Code and Ada's plans too radical. He grew increasingly fearful of Code's recruitments, and constantly tried to sneak away, preferably avoiding any further association with the new Kara. Upon seeing Ada's and Daemon's revolt against Code, Bug swiftly took to Code's side by informing Daemon's limitations. Bug is also an alcoholic, as while Code was creating Claw Grimes, he was drinking copiously.

 Appearance 
Bug was a short elderly man with several missing teeth, several of which were knocked out by Daemon, and a long beard. He wore an aviator-like attire and a black mantle over his shoulders.

 New Era: Part I 
 Code's Assault Arc 

After Code stormed the base, he confronted Bug, noting that Jigen and Boro were dead. He demanded that Bug take him to Ada. He agreed, so long as he was paid. Before he could finish warning him about the woman, Code smashed the pod open. Upon awakening, she indifferently passed Code. As Code became affected by Ada's ability, Ada insisted she would happily talk after she freshened up. Bug explained the nature of Ada's imprisonment. When Bug tried to leave as Ada and Code struck up a partnership, Code stopped him.

As Bug desperately kept trying to convince Code and Ada to leave, Ada decided she might need more protection than just Code. She had Bug awaken her little brother Daemon. When other facility guards discovered them, Bug tried in vain to warn them against attacking. After Daemon settled down and began playing with Code, Bug tried to sneak away, only for Daemon to tackle and headbutt him. Code, hoping to learn more about Daemon's power, demonstrated how his Claw Mark worked, using Bug as target by pulling him through the marks. Bug later observed the tension between the siblings and Code over his actions during the confrontation with Kawaki.

 Omnipotence Arc 

He also later witnessed as they successfully captured Amado and forced him to remove Code's limiters. When tensions escalated into conflict between Code and Daemon, Bug revealed the limitation of Daemon's reflecting ability, hoping that with it and his restored powers, Code and Daemon would take each other out. When Code was unable to defeat Daemon, he retreated, taking Bug with him. Bug complained about being taken against his will. Code took Bug to the Ten-Tails' pen, where he mused on his situation. Bug warned him that Daemon's power is the reason he tried to stop him from waking Daemon up, and later observed as Code used his Claw Marks to split off portions of the Ten-Tails' into Claw Grime for him to command. Drinking a lot, he regretted asking and learning Code had created over a thousand of them.

 New Era: Part II 
 Boruto's Return Arc 

At some point during the three-year time skip, Bug was devoured by a Claw Grime, becoming one with a tree while still being alive. From it, the Human God Tree known as Mamushi was created with the instinct to devour Ada.

 Mamushi Arc 

After Mamushi was defeated in Konoha and his Thornsoul Bulb claimed by Boruto, Code prepared himself for Boruto's arrival by hiding himself in a Claw Mark on Bug's tree. When Boruto then tried to free Bug from his imprisonment, Code ambushed him with the intention of killing him, but ultimately failed. As a result of this setback, Mamushi's Thornsoul Bulb rotted, leading to Bug's death.

 Trivia 
 Bug is named after software bugs found in computer programming.

pt-br:Bug