Title: Chamaru
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Chamaru
-----------------------

is a ninken from Konohagakure's Inuzuka clan and Akita Inuzuka's partner.

 Background 
At some point in time, Chamaru lost his right hind leg during a mission which Katasuke Tōno replaced with a prosthetic, leading his partner, Akita, to join the village's Scientific Ninja Weapons Team.

 Personality 
According to Akita, Chamaru is a very dutiful dog and became saddened when his lost leg robbed him of the ability to continue being a ninken. Chamaru is also well-acquainted with Boruto Uzumaki.

 Appearance 
Chamaru greatly resembles the Shiba Inu breed of dogs. He is a medium-sized, light brown canine with a very bushy tail. His right hind leg has been replaced with a prosthetic one.

 Abilities 
His partner Akita has been credited with being well versed in her clan's techniques including the Fang Passing Fang,  and  techniques.Boruto: Naruto Next Generations, Volume 5's Akita's Profile As her canine companion, Chamaru is undoubtedly also able to perform these collaborative techniques.

 New Era 
 Ao Arc 

When Boruto and his team helped escort Katasuke to the lab, the Chamaru quickly recognised Boruto's scent and greeted him. While happy to see his old friend, Boruto was surprised to see Chamaru's prosthetic leg. It was from the explanation of what Katsuke did for Chamaru that Boruto was able to finally get over his anger at both Katasuke and advanced ninja tech. When word was received that Konohamaru Sarutobi went missing on his mission, Boruto's team was assigned to search for him. Chamaru's tracking abilities were offered by Akita for the mission. Chamaru ultimately led the genin and Katasuke to a crashed blimp, where they narrowly defeated a group of self-moving puppets. Afterwards, Chamaru lead them to Konohamaru and his partner Mugino inside a cave. They were soon confronted by Ao, who held a machine-gun at them, demanding to know what they learned about the black container in the blimp. After confronting Koji Kashin, Chamaru alerted Team Konohamaru and Katasuke upon finding an unconscious boy by some destroyed puppets.