Title: Chihare Amano
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Chihare_Amano
-----------------------

is scientist from Konohagakure.

 Background 
During the time of Pain's Assault and the Fourth Shinobi World War, Chihare was little and only remembers that her parents took her somewhere for evacuation. As an adult, she read magazines and watched shows that chronicled these events, making her realise how difficult those times were. She had no idea that this could happen because she was always protected. Chihare stayed home while the Five Great Shinobi Countries fought and the shinobi defended their villages with their lives. The girl took apart light bulbs, read scientific books, and all this alone. She constantly lived, being covered by the back of someone else. She was sure that many children the same age felt the same way. At some point in time, Chihare became a member of the Cultural Institute, and also acquired an underground laboratory in the Konohagakure, using the old home of Furie Kanhen. Initially, her specialty was astrophysics. For about six months she observed celestial bodies and discovered a star with strange movements. Little by little it changed its orbit from north to south, and then from south to north, revolving around another star. She reported this to the Cultural Institute, but no one believed that such a celestial body existed.

 Personality 
Chihare is a rather impulsive women who jumped into the fray when Naruto Uzumaki infiltrated her lab, closing the chapter and attacking randomly for five minutes without even wanting to look at who she was trying to kill. However, realising that the Seventh Hokage is standing in front of her, she politely apologises and even bows. She doesn't particularly like people and tries to work alone so she can better concentrate on her experiments. Chihare strives to benefit society while being very focused on learning about the nature of chakra. She is also a very stubborn person, which Naruto admired as she continued to experiment over and over again, despite numerous failures. Chihare is simple and straightforward, easily asking Naruto uncomfortable questions without feeling any embarrassment. However, after several days of communicating with the Seventh Hokage, Chihare became more open, beginning to feel guilty that she herself was not as happy as he was. She also admits that Naruto is the best Hokage, completely different from the others, although she is a little disappointed in him due to his paperwork in the office instead of being a shinobi. Naruto himself notes that some of Chihare's statements, which seem insignificant, sound very childish and, despite her dislike of people, she wants her work to be appreciated.

 Appearance 
Chihare is described as a young woman who wore an apron when she first met Naruto Uzumaki.

 Abilities 
Chihare is a very smart woman who amazed the Seventh Hokage with her achievements based on the study of liquid chakra. Her laboratory in Konohagakure contained about a thousand Petri Dishes, which contained liquid chakra, based on which Chihare sought to create a device that would allow the use of multipotent chakra. Naruto recognised that Chihare's designs were capable of having an impact on the entire world, as she also thought about recreating any type of cell, such as human skin, nails, and even the heart. She managed to deal with the Polar particles within a few days, understand that they are unstable, and discover their weakness in front of water. In the past, she was a successful astrophysicist, having long observed unusual celestial bodies, and also developed unique equipment such as the Liquid Crystal Wall.

Chihare is not physically strong, but she staunchly defends her designs, using even an ordinary ballpoint pen in battle. Using a scientific ninja tool, she is able to launch fireballs.

 New Era 
 Naruto Retsuden: Naruto Uzumaki and the Spiral Destiny 
As Naruto Uzumaki trains with special glasses that grant him access to the Byakugan, he notices an unnatural flow of chakra coming from the roots of an old tree. He discovers a shelter hidden by a liquid crystal wall, where he is attacked by Chihare, who believes that Naruto is a robber who has come to steal her work. However, upon learning who he is, Chihare apologises and treats Naruto to tea, and then shows him his laboratory, telling him what he is working on. She asks Naruto to explain how he transforms chakra into Wind Release, but he fails to explain, leaving Chihara disappointed. After talking a little about chakra, Chihare leads Naruto out into the yard where the motorcycle was parked. Due to the fact that the device runs on natural gas, which is mined in small quantities, Chihare wants to convert the chakra into gas as well so that it will not have any deficiencies. She asks Naruto to lend her his glasses with access to the Byakugan so that she can observe the chakra, but he refuses her, instead volunteering to personally help Chihara in this matter. Returning to the laboratory, the Hokage examines all the Petri Dishes, but finds no changes in the chakra. During this time, they are attacked by drones carrying photon weapons, which destroy the ceiling of the laboratory, and one of the kamikaze drones blows it up. Chihare and Naruto manage to escape, after which they escape the drones on a motorcycle. During the chase, Naruto, who does not know how to control the motorcycle, breaks it a little and finds out that the car has no brake, which is why the fugitives have to rush through the village, after leaving which they, having destroyed several drones, end up on the rails, where the motorcycle was destroyed, Naruto and Chihara are saved by Yamato who arrives to help.

The next day, Chihare is given a laboratory in the cave gorge, which was located under the railway bridge, where Orochimaru, Suigetsu and Karin were already working. Suigetsu admits that they tried to help Chihare with her work, but she turned everyone away. Naruto enters her laboratory and finds the women sitting on the floor using her laptop, despite the fact that there was a chair and a table in the room. They continue the experiment by observing the chakra in the Petri Dishes, during which Naruto, amazed by Chihare's desire for solitude, talks about the mission with Kinetsu, as well as his friends and the events at the wedding of Sai and Ino Yamanaka. During the conversation, Naruto manages to reach Chihara's hidden feelings.

A few days later, Chihare visits Naruto in the Hokage's office to talk about the Polar particles. She reveals that she found a way to cure Naruto of the illness that he suffered from. Chihare reports that they have studied Polar particles, and have come to the conclusion that they can help, but they will not be easy to obtain, and also informs about the instability of these particles. Chihare examines the office, noting its clutter, and then thanks Naruto for the fact that now scientists can work for the sake of people, and not for the sake of another tool that will be used in war, but then reports that she is disappointed in him, since filling out papers is dirty office - not the level of a hero of the last war and such a strong shinobi. Naruto replies that he enjoys his job and gives Chihara a sample of his new headband, noting that he truly loves the people around him.

Later, Chihare and Naruto work with liquid chakra again, where Naruto reveals that Polar particles were found in Land of Redaku. They are joined by Orochimaru, who asks to be more careful with his equipment, and after Chihare's question about whether he was in the Land of Redaku, he gives a positive answer, and also says that the Dōjutsu Glasses were developed using technology from Redaku. Chihare reveals that she left the Cultural Institute because "she doesn't like people", but Naruto doesn't believe her. Chihare does not understand why Naruto, having so many friends, cares about her, since she is just one of many scientists under the Hokage. At the same moment, Chihare and Naruto receive the first results of the chakra experiments and, to celebrate, the Hokage takes the scientist to Ramen Ichiraku. Boruto Uzumaki, Sarada Uchiha, Mitsuki and Iruka Umino are having dinner there with them. Chihare expects the ramen to be amazingly delicious, since the Hokage himself eats it every day, but finds it to be very ordinary. Boruto quietly, so as not to be heard by his father and the director of the academy, tells Chihare that he likes burgers better. Realising that Naruto likes to come here in the company of friends, just like Boruto at the burger joint, Chihare fishes out a circle of Naruto from the ramen and says that such a name is ideal for the Seventh Hokage, who, like a whirlpool, attracts people. She wonders why the symbol on the shinobi's headband is called a leaf, since the symbol doesn't look like one to her, and is told that it is rather a whirlpool that will pull anyone astray into the center, which convinces Chihare of the truth of her thinking.

The next day, Chihare prepares to give the liquid chakra prototype to the Cultural Institute, and thanks Naruto for his cooperation by coming to his office. At that moment she smiled and when she left the Hokage's office, she regretted that she had to leave. In the afternoon, Chihare met envoys from the Cultural Institute, who took the prototype, and then attacked her, punching her in the stomach, and kidnapping her. This moment was seen by Naruto, who, together with Orochimaru, was on a rock with the faces of the Hokage. Despite the fact that Naruto was about to immediately give chase, Orochimaru did not allow him to do this, assuring him that the scientist would not be killed for at least three more days. However, he agrees to infiltrate the hideout, which turns out to be a flying ship warehouse on the outskirts of the new city, owned by the Land of Fire and Advanced Technology Research Institute, and also funded by the Cultural Institute. Naruto discovers the kidnappers and they confess that they locked Chihare on the 27th floor of the building. They find the scientist unharmed, untied and sitting in the back of the room, unable to move due to a magnetic trap with copper makibishi. She reveals Furie Kanhen's plans, but Naruto decides to save her before stopping the criminal. Having freed the captive, Naruto scolds her for saying that she is not worthy of his help and wants to be left alone, and then leaves with Orochimaru. Chihare catches up with them as the two fight, as they had different views on Kanhen's death, and Naruto tosses her the Photon Gun, which Chihare uses to destroy the ceiling, destroying the Polar particles and the laboratory.

Some time later, Chihare attends a conversation between Naruto and Sasuke, who treats her rudely. The Hokage team, including Sakura Haruno and Shikamaru Nara, develops a plan to obtain new Polar particles using an unusual celestial body that Chihare observed for six months long ago. She says that this celestial body is two hundred kilometres above the Land of Fire, and tomorrow it will be above the Konohagakure, but if they cannot reach it, then the next time will only be in six months. The team devises a plan to obtain the Particles using Kakashi and Yamato's Ninjutsu, as well as Chihare's motorcycle. The scientist stayed up all night to modify the motorcycle.

After the successful completion of the mission and Naruto's recovery, Chihare returns to the Cultural Institute. Naruto believes that she should become the new director, but Chihare refuses.

pt-br:Chihare Ameno