Title: Chiriku
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Chiriku
-----------------------

was a ninja monk from the Fire Temple. He was also one of the Twelve Guardian Ninja guards for the Land of Fire's daimyō.

 Background 

He was once part of the Twelve Guardian Ninja, indicated by the sash on his waist, at which time he developed a strong friendship with Asuma Sarutobi. During this time, some underground organisation put a 30 million ryō bounty on his head.Naruto chapter 320, page 3

When six of the members tried a coup d'etat, he fought against them along with the other five members of their group. Only Chiriku and Asuma (and, in the anime, Kazuma, but not to the others' knowledge) survived the fight. Following the group's destruction, he became head monk at the Fire Temple, an elite monastery that is home to monks with special abilities. In the anime, it is revealed that Chiriku was once a student of Chūkaku. He apparently surpassed his master at some point.Naruto: Shippūden episode 316

 Personality 
Chiriku was a seemingly calm and composed individual described as being unaffected — hardly letting anything phase him. Despite this, Chiriku was a righteous man that when angered, would display it greatly. He was also described as being a sincere individual.

 Appearance 
Chiriku was a bald man with dark eyes, and very thick eyebrows. He wore the standard attire of the ninja monk along with the sash worn by members of the Twelve Guardian Ninja group and went barefoot.

 Abilities 

Chiriku was a highly capable fighter, having been a member of the Twelve Guardian Ninja, earning a bounty of 30,000,000 ryō in the underground black market. As the head of the Fire Temple, Chiriku was well-versed in all of the Fire Temple's secret teachings. Likewise, he was a master of the Fire Temple's secret taijutsu style, able to compete defend and counter Hidan and Kakuzu's simultaneous assault for a period. In the anime, his abilities were great enough that Kabuto Yakushi wanted to reincarnate him for use in the Fourth Shinobi World War. 

 Ninjutsu 
Having studied under and surpassing his master, Chūkaku, Chiriku had advanced knowledge of chakra and sealing formulas.  Chiriku was proficient in barrier ninjutsu, able to create a powerful barrier around the Fire Temple to protect it from intruders. He achieved mastery for the Fire Temple's ultimate technique, the Welcoming Approach: Thousand-Armed Murder. He also seemed to be skilled with fūinjutsu, as seen when he and several other monks attempted to suppress Sora's demon chakra.

 Part II 
 Twelve Guardian Ninja 

In the anime, when it was discovered that the graves of his fallen allies were robbed, Chiriku contacted Konohagakure for help. It was also revealed that since the failed coup d'etat, Chiriku had been looking after and training Kazuma's only child, Sora. Ashamed of Kazuma's decision to join the coup d'etat, Chiriku chose to never tell Sora the truth. Despite how the rest of the Fire Temple felt and treated Sora, Chiriku was sympathetic to Sora's hardship and did what he could to keep his morale up, yet at the same time keep him in line.

After an attempt to retrieve the stolen corpses failed and it became clear that Sora's demonic side was becoming more uncontrollable, Chiriku decided to have Sora join Team Yamato return to Konoha under the guise of filling in for the injured Sai, where in truth it was for Sora to be better watched after.

 Akatsuki Suppression Mission 

After entering the Land of Fire, Hidan and Kakuzu of Akatsuki arrive at the Fire Temple believing that such a religious place would perhaps house the country's jinchūriki. They completely wiped out the monks and the temple and Kakuzu took Chiriku's body to a black market exchange point to get the bounty for his body.

 In Other Media 
 Video Games 

 Trivia 
 Chiriku's name comes from chi meaning "earth", and riku meaning "land".
 According to the databook:
 Chiriku wished to fight Asuma Sarutobi.
 In Naruto: Shippūden episode 76, when Kakuzu and Hidan arrive at the bounty station and the bounty exchange master flips through his bingo book, Chiriku is listed as being 5'11" and having an AB blood type, which conflicts with his databook profile.
 Chiriku's face appeared on a lantern in the ending omake of Naruto: Shippūden episode 129.
 In the anime, Kabuto Yakushi wished to reincarnate Chiriku. However, he ultimately failed.

 Quotes 
 (To Hidan and Kakuzu) "I am Chiriku of the Fire Temple, and I won't lose to the likes of you!"Naruto: Shippūden episode 73