Title: Chiyo (princess)
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Chiyo_(princess)
-----------------------

is the daughter of the daimyō of the Land of This.

 Background 

Chiyo attended the eating contest alongside Shū and her father. After, she witnessed Tatewaki's harsh training methods and scolds him for mistreating Shū.

The next day, Chiyo woke Naruto, who disguised as Shū, and notified him of breakfast's start and later takes literature classes with Naruto. Chiyo watched Naruto train with Tatewaki and was quick to notice his strange skills. Realising Naruto was only pretending to be Shū, she held a weapon to his neck and threatened him, asking where the real Shū was. However, after using a smoke bomb, Naruto was able to escape. She found Naruto once again, but was unable to fight him due to the Akatsuki's invasion. She was saved by Tatewaki and protected by Naruto during that time, and at the invasion's end, was able to escape to the Land of That with Shū where his father welcomed her into their home.

Presently, Chiyo was travelling with Shū.

 Personality 

Chiyo is shown to be a polite and caring person, frequently referring to Shū with the suffix "-sama" and showing concern for his well-being, physical and emotional, as she later reprimands Tatewaki for his training methods, which she called too strict. Aside from that, Chiyo, alongside her father, is shown to be impressed by the final contestants as they struggled to finish their portions in the last part of the eating contest.

While seldom shown, Chiyo could also be fierce and decisive, as seen when she threatened Naruto after Tatewaki caught him impersonating Shū.

 Appearance 
Chiyo has brown eyes and long curled brown hair with a red ribbon. While reminiscent of the Hime hair-style, she also kept two bangs framing her face that are curled up in the ends. She wears a pink kimono with a light pink sleevless haori with purple trimmings and an red and blue obi with a yellow cord around the waist.

 Abilities 

While not explicitly shown, Chiyo was confident in the use of a naginata, certain that she could cut off "an arm or leg or two" of a cornered shinobi like Naruto. However, perhaps due to her status, she showed very little experience in stressful situations, falling on her butt after being startled by a smoke bomb.

 Trivia 
 Her name being Chiyo and nearly getting killed by one of Sasori's puppets is a reflection to Sasori going to fight his grandmother Chiyo in the future.