Title: Daemon
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Daemon
-----------------------

is a former member of Kara and a citizen of Konohagakure.

 Background 
Daemon and his older sister were modified with Shinobi-Ware and Shibai Ōtsutsuki‘s DNA by Amado Sanzu in his hopes of bringing down Isshiki Ōtsutsuki's vessel Jigen. After learning that Daemon and his sister are among the cyborgs with the capabilities to defeat him in Jigen's weaker body, Isshiki ordered their destruction. Boro, who was captivated by Ada, had secretly hid the siblings away at one of his hidden establishments.

 Personality 
Daemon is a very energetic and mischievous child. He enjoys playing with others and can quickly grow attached to certain people. At the same time, he is fiercely protective of his sister, not letting anyone with less than sincere goals about her near and is determined to protect her from anything he deems a threat to her well-being. Likewise, he is very loyal to her orders, willing to keep quiet about things he would like to tell otherwise and likewise puts her happiness above all else. Daemon turned out to be sentimental as he got angry after Bug tried to run away without even talking to him. Once engaging in battle, he is very sadistic and remorseless. He enjoys fighting, quickly getting excited when Code pulled him into one, and just as disappointed when Code sent him back away from it. He is very confident in his abilities, considering himself stronger than Jigen, Code,  Naruto, Sasuke and also Boruto and Kawaki. With his strength, Daemon wishes to fight strong opponents, and became interested in Himawari Uzumaki when he felt an unspecified intensity coming from her, despite thinking she also appears weak. After the rest of the world had their memories of Boruto and Kawaki swapped, Daemon was amused by the possibility of Kawaki's lie being exposed by the God Tree who wanted to consume Naruto.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 6

 Appearance 

Daemon is a young boy with short, turquoise hair that has a pink-coloured streaks in it, with a beauty mark on the upper corner of his mouth, purple eyes and yellow pupils and pronounced canine teeth.Boruto chapter 60, page 1 He wears a red hoodie jacket with star patterns over a turquoise shirt, red shorts tied with a white belt and dark sandals. He also has yellow nail polish on his fingernails and toe nails.

Three years after Boruto left Konoha, Daemon now wears a hoodie jacket with a hood that resembles rabbit ears and three star pattern buttons.

 Abilities 
As with every Kara member, Daemon’s body had been modified with Scientific Ninja Tools and Shibai Ōtsutsuki‘s DNA by Amado.Boruto Two Blue Vortex chapter 13, page 21 While he has yet to demonstrate his full power,Boruto chapter 80, page 38 Amado has noted that his combat abilities greatly surpassed Jigen's,Boruto chapter 56, page 24 which is proven when he easily overpowered the full-powered Code.Boruto chapter 71 Ada considers Daemon the only non-Ōtsutsuki capable of killing her. Alone, he was able to effortlessly kill dozens of Human God Trees.Boruto Two Blue Vortex chapter 32

 Physical Prowess 
He is shown to have advanced taijutsu and immense raw strength, able to break a grown man's neck with a single kick,Boruto chapter 59, page 37 as well as easily overpower the full-powered Code with only a few hits.Boruto chapter 71 Boruto claimed he has .Boruto Two Blue Vortex chapter 32, page 7 Though Daemon is shown to have a limit, as he eventually becomes exhausted from fighting the constant division of Mamushi-clones.Boruto Two Blue Vortex chapter 33, page 14 He is also shown to be incredibly fast and stealthy, able to instantly sneak out of his pod and catch Code off guard,Boruto chapter 59, pages 30-31  as well as quickly reacting to Kawaki's Daikokuten chakra rods in mid-air.Boruto chapter 74, page 32 Even Sarada's Mangekyō Sharingan struggled to track his movements.Boruto Two Blue Vortex chapter 26, pages 38-41

 Shinjutsu 

From his infusion of Shibai’s cells, Daemon gained the shinjutsu to instantly, even without intent or awareness, turn an opponent's attack on him against them. However, this requires Daemon to be touching someone with his hands,Boruto chapter 71, page 21 even if who he is touching and who is attacking him are not the same person.Boruto chapter 60, page 13 His ability will extend to the person he is touching. Merely thinking of harming Daemon will trigger the reflection, which scales with the killing intent.Boruto chapter 75, page 3-5

 New Era: Part I 
 Code's Assault Arc 

After Ada had awoken and formed a partnership with Code, she ordered Bug to awaken Daemon. Daemon quickly jumped out of his stasis pod to ride Code's back, questioning if he is his sister's "new man". He quickly calmed down when Ada assured him that Code was only a new friend and not her type of man. When Boro's guards learned of Code's intrusion, they attacked the cyborgs, only for Daemon to use his ability to reflect their attacks back at them, killing them all.

Later, Daemon quickly began warming up to Code, constantly forcing himself on Code for rides. As Daemon turned his attention to Bug who was trying to escape, Code suddenly struck at the boy with his Claw Marks, which were instantly reflected back on Code. Code explained that he wanted to better understand how Daemon's power worked, explaining that his marks let him teleport to wherever they are. As Daemon found the power cool, Code asked how the boy's power works. While wanting to tell Code, Daemon was forbidden by his sister. While Ada was guiding Code on Kawaki's location, Daemon slept on her lap. He was woken up by her pleas for Code not to kill Kawaki, but she told him to go back to sleep. When Kawaki activated his new Kāma, granting him access to Isshiki's powers, he began to overwhelm Code, shrinking his Claw Marks to prevent him from escaping. When he was about to blast Code, Code pulled Daemon through the Claw Mark on his face, reflecting Kawaki's attack back at him. This woke Daemon up, just for Code to send him back to Ada. She informed Code that it Kawaki had died, she'd have sent Daemon to kill him.

Daemon rode Code's back as Ada reminded him of the terms of their agreement, displeased with him using Daemon without her permission. She warned him that if she deemed him a hindrance even after having his power limiters lifted, she and Daemon would dispose of him. 

 Omnipotence Arc 

Later, Code and Ada successfully captured Amado, who Daemon mockingly greeted upon his return. He watched as Amado begged for his life in exchange of lifting the power limiters. When Amado appealed to Ada's interest in Kawaki, she signalled Daemon to stop Code from killing him. When he tried to attack Amado again, Daemon considered Code had to be disposed of. When Ada dissolved their partnership, Code attempted to replace Daemon as her knight, but he maintained the upper hand against Code, even after Bug revealed the caveat of his reflecting ability. After Code retreated with Bug, he jumped on Amado's back as he and Ada continued discussing their positions and Shikamaru Nara's offer. Daemon was confident he could deal with Kawaki, negating Konoha's need of Amado. Amado considered it, but maintained his goal was different, and asked them to go to Konoha, where he'd also mediate for their alliance. After Amado had a phone call with Shikamaru, and Ada threatened to kill him if he didn't help her with Kawaki, Daemon clarified he would be the one killing him. On his way to Konoha, Daemon was startled by Ada's reaction as she spied on his mission briefing to Team 7, and noticed how her heartbeat had quickened when she hugged him. She assured him everything was fine. 

Upon arriving in Konoha, he and Ada were greeted by Konoha shinobi. Already aware of Shikamaru's setup, she took off flying, carrying Daemon piggyback with her to their new home. Inside the house, Daemon quickly antagonised and attacked Boruto and Kawaki, knocking them both out. When they woke up, Daemon said he had to make it clear he was stronger than they were, to discourage them from defying himself and Ada. He asked Kawaki if he liked Ada's lap, and Boruto informed Shikamaru through the comm system that Daemon gave them a baptism by fire. As Amado explained the shinjutsu nature and origins of Daemon's and Ada's abilities, Boruto expressed scepticism about Daemon's ability, who asked if he wanted to test them. He did not, but Kawaki did, his own killing intent reflected back at him. The next day, Daemon teased Boruto when he asked Ada why picked Kawaki over him. When the boys began arguing, she asked for Sumire Kakei and Sarada Uchiha to join her, as she wanted to talk to girls. While they did, Daemon and Kawaki exchanged insults, and Daemon later lost to Boruto in a video game. When Kawaki caused a commotion while accusing Momoshiki of planning something, Daemon agreed that the Ōtsutsuki don't care about their mission. After Kawaki's departure, he joined Ada and the girls for a shopping trip, riding on Boruto's shoulders, still teasing him over finding him weak and asking if he knew of any strong opponents. Feeling something, he rushed outside to find Himawari, interested in who she was. Learning she was Boruto's sister, he was confused about her weak appearance despite feeling something intense from her. Boruto pulled him away from her, disapproving when he thought Daemon has a crush on her.

While with his sister and Sumire, Ada noticed Kawaki being pursued by Konoha shinobi for his recent attacks on Naruto and Boruto with her dōjutsu, prompting her to fly to his location and Daemon telling her not to leave without him. Pursuing Ada, he noticed her flash enveloping the sky. Upon catching up with Ada, he tackled Kawaki to the ground, demanding that he better not have done anything shameless with Ada. After it was revealed that Ada subconsciously swapped the history of Boruto and Kawaki to everyone in the world, Daemon joined Ada to find and talk with Boruto. Upon finding him with Sasuke, the latter realising that the situation was not as it seemed, Ada apologised for her unintentional stealing of Boruto's life. Despite the situation, Boruto did not blame Ada, but rather became committed to get strong enough to resolve things with Kawaki as brother-to-brother. Daemon told Boruto to get strong enough so he could finally fight someone with all his strength.

 New Era: Part II 
 Boruto's Return Arc 

Three years later, Daemon considered Sumire and Sarada's attempt to convince anyone else to listen to Boruto and unwinnable game, and kept watching them when Ada raised the possibility they weren't captivated by her, just like how their memories weren't rewritten.

When Code attacked the village to draw out Boruto, Ada watched the events through her Senringan, telling Daemon of the events. When Code's effort worked, Boruto unveiled his new Rasengan: "Uzuhiko". Daemon explained to Ada how it worked, leaving him interested.

When Ada reported her discovery of the sentient God Trees targeting herself and Naruto to Kawaki, he initially dismisses the threat, confident he could eliminate them, but Daemon teased him that if they attacked looking for Naruto, this could lead to the exposure of Kawaki's lie, earning himself Ada's admonishment.

Daemon continued watching over Ada as others came to talk to her. Kawaki came needing her help to find Boruto. Then came Mitsuki talking about how he could relate to Ada in talking about their feelings and trying to find purpose in themselves. Later, when Boruto was captured and interrogated by Konoha, Daemon listened to Ada's report of events through her Senrigan. To which, he mocked Kawaki about how Boruto was going to expose Kawaki's ruse. To their shock however, Boruto refused to do such, actually trying to protect Kawaki's status in Konoha.

After Boruto was able to escape from Konoha's custody, Daemon slept on Ada's lap as she looked into Boruto's past three years to better understand his intentions.

 Mamushi Arc 

After Ada learned about Sarada and Sumire's new feelings of love for Boruto, she asks to meet with them. As she voices her doubts that the two girls are attracted her like everyone else, Daemon quickly grabs the two and subdues them, ready to kill them. Ultimately, he let them go, proclaiming he only wanted to prove how easy it would be for him to kill them. Ada returned focus to the subject at hand. She had concluded that Sarada and Sumire didn't break free from her allure, nor were they ever affected by it. She also concluded that the reason behind this was because Ada had subconsciously made it so, wanting have friends who liked her on their own. To which, she truly believed that over the past years, Sarada and Sumire had become her genuine friends with no real desire to hurt her. Sarada and Sumire were moved by this, hugging Ada to affirm their genuine friendship. Daemon smirked at this development.

Days later, Shikamaru contacted Daemon, along with a several other Konoha-nin who accepted Boruto as an ally through Inojin's Mind Body Transmission Formation for a secret joint mission to deal with Mamushi who had come to the village for Ada. The Eighth Hokage explained the situation and the nature of the Human God Tree's Division ability. As Ada was terrified of Mamushi's arrival, Daemon promised to keep his sister safe. As Inojin's technique briefly disconnected, Daemon suggested Ada use her Senringan, but Ada refused. She noted that somehow, Mamushi able to not only detect her when she spy on him with her eye, but also determine where she currently is. Ultimately, as the Mamushis began to multiply into the hundreds, Shikamaru decided to go with his backup plan: Let Mamushi find Ada. Knowing that the Mamushis, with their reduced intelligence, would all join up to get Ada, the Konoha team could work with Daemon to finish off all the Divisions. Daemon became eager for the fight, thinking this should have been done from the start.

Once coming outside, the Mamushis quickly spotted Daemon and Ada. Ada flew away with Daemon on her back, luring the Mamushis away and to gather together. Once close enough, Daemon took to the ground and began his counterattack, reflecting their attacks and striking them down with his own assault. As the divisions continued their relentless effort to consume Ada, the Konoha team arrived to battle back against the threat. While soon getting the hundreds of Mamushis down to under 50, their plan to wipe them remainder out in one assault failed when Sarada fainted from overusing her Mangekyō Sharingan. The remaining Mamushis, now filled with survival instinct, multiplied into the thousands.

As the Mamushis continued their relentless pursuit of Ada, Daemon continued his efforts to protect his sister. While he continued to quickly destroy them, their endless numbers began to tire Daemon. Suddenly, Inojin was summoned to the field. With it deduced that the Divisions shared a hive mind, Inojin transferred his mind into a Mamushi, subsequently taking control of all the Mamushis. He then called to Daemon, getting his attention as he directed killing intent on Daemon. This made Daemon reflect it back on the Mamushis and destroy their eyes, the only means for Mamushi to continue dividing. Following this, all the Mamushis collapsed and disintegrated.

 Trivia 
 Daemon is a program that runs continuously and exists for the purpose of handling periodic service requests that a computer system expects to receive.