Title: Daizen Matsushige
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Daizen_Matsushige
-----------------------

is a former thief that had settled in Konohagakure as a shopkeeper.

 Background 
Daizen had committed various thefts and murders during his time as a thief. He had once encountered a shinobi, the father of Hibiki and Kodama, who he had killed, though not before the latter left a cross shaped scar on his chest. Daizen would later start a new life owning a grocery shop in Konoha.

 Personality 

A fugitive from justice, Daizen pretended to be a respectable person, doing business in the store and helping the local old ladies, earning their respect. He has also shown a fake love for cats, allegedly worrying about Mikazuki running away from Mitsuki, but in reality throwing stones at them. Daizen is cruel and arrogant, willing to blame others for his crimes, stating that he "would not tolerate false accusations". He laughed at Hibiki and Kodama's accusations, and decided to become famous by killing them, earning praise for taking out criminals who had been attacking former shinobi.

 Appearance 
Daizen is a portly man of medium height with brown eyes, a large nose, and short, dishevelled hair that is shaved at the bottom of his head. When working in a shop, he wears a white shirt, black pants, plain sandals, and a green apron with a badge on the chest. In battles, Daizen prefers a blue suit with one large button on the jacket. He also has a cross-shaped scar on his chest, which he disguises.

 Abilities 
As a former shinobi, Daizen successfully stole and killed for many years, hiding his involvement by pretending to be a witness to his own crimes. He deduced that attacks on former shinobi were targeting him, and researched how they were attacked to prepare himself, successfully countering their sleeping gas, and tricking Hibiki and Kodama close enough to attack. He is good at close combat and fought with a kunai against two sword fighters.

 Ninjutsu 

Daizen is proficient in Wind Release and his skill in this area has been noted by Kōtarō Fūma. He is able to create wind blades with enough power to create a large gouge in a block of wood and leave wounds on Hibiki's face.

 New Era 
When Mitsuki had asked for the whereabouts of his missing cat, Daizen offered to let him know if he saw any similar looking cats. The next day, a customer talked to him about the attacks on ex-shinobi, also bringing up that Daizen was a shinobi as well. Daizen claimed it was only a desk job. Later, he found Mikazuki behind his shop and scared him off.

At night, as Daizen closed his shop, he was attacked by Hibiki and Kodama. However, he anticipated their ambush and fought back, thinking that by killing them he would be hailed as a hero. As Daizen was about to kill them, Mitsuki intercepted him. Daizen confirmed to Team 7 and Kōtarō Fūma that the duo were the attackers. Hibiki and Kodama accused him of being their father's killer and only wanted to see the scar on his chest. Daizen revealed to everyone no scar, though it is revealed as a ruse when Mikazuki scratched off prosthetics covering it. Though Sarada Uchiha didn't think it was enough proof, Mitsuki believed their claims and pointed out the injury he inflicted on Hibiki, and Kōtarō suggested comparing it to the ones inflicted in the unsolved robberies and murders. Daizen attempted to flee but was stopped by Mitsuki.

 Trivia 
 Written as 大膳, daizen means "grey plover".