Title: Daore Dōtonbori
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Daore_Dōtonbori
-----------------------

, also known as the "One Who Pecks at Tiered Food Boxes", is a competitive eater and a member of Exploding-Till-You-Eat.

 Appearance 
Daore is described as being shorter than his father, Kūi, but just as fat as his father is tall, which is to say he is very fat. He does not wear a shirt in the novel.

 New Era 
 Naruto Shinden: Parent and Child Day 

Daore and Kūi participate in Konohagakure's annual food eating competition. Because this year's contest falls on Parent and Child Day, only parents and their children can enter. Daore successfully makes it through the plates of food provided by Ramen Ichiraku, Lightning Burger, and Yakiniku Q, securing his and his father's participation in the final round. But the amount of food ends up being too much for Daore and he faints before he can even start eating the dumplings from Ankorodō. His father ridicules him as weak and begins eating the dumplings alone, but ends up vomiting, disqualifying both of them from the contest.

In the anime, the two instead are in league with the Ankorodō's owner, and she rigged the competition in favour of the Dōtonbori, ensuring their Lightning Burgers are not spicy, and their dumpling bowls are shallower than the Akimichi's. However, Boruto Uzumaki caught on, and switched the rigged dumpling bowls to the regular ones, and ultimately, when the Ankorodō owner was exposed for her cheat, the three were scolded by Shikamaru Nara.

 Time Slip Arc 

Some time later, Daore and his father went to a flee market in Konohagakure to look for new clothing. They ironically found what they were looking for from their hated rivals in Chōji and Chōchō Akimichi. While Daore and his father were infuriated that the Akimichi didn't recognise them, they still decided to buy from them. 

 Trivia 
 His given name of Daore references kuidaore, "eat 'til you drop", while his surname could reference the Osaka district associated with that phrase.