Title: Datsuji
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Datsuji
-----------------------

is a shinobi of Sunagakure and, alongside his teammate Goji, is a member of Team Goji.

 Personality 
Datsuji is very prideful and is willing to admit defeat at the hands of others.

 Appearance 
Datsuji has blue hair and purple markings on his cheeks. He also wears a blue forehead protector like a bandanna, which completely covers his eyes. His attire consists of a blue shirt, bandages around his wrist, black pants and shinobi sandals. 

 Abilities 
Datsuji is a quite resourceful and intelligent individual as he was capable of tricking and easily defeating Yome with a single flash bomb, mainly because of her weakness of blinding lights. He also has proficiency in Water Release, creating water needles, which can be used to stun the opponents.

 Interlude 
 In Naruto's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths  

Datsuji, alongside his team, participated in the joint Chūnin Exams. He and his team were one of the few who managed to qualify for the second round. The next day, the second exam proctor — Temari, announced the start of the second round taken place within Demon Desert.Naruto: Shippūden episode 398 Following a plan set by Shira, Datsuji's team evaded Team Guy while Shira's team set a trap for the Konoha-nin. After seemingly removing the Konoha-nin from the exam, Shira's team regrouped with the other Suna-nin with plans to make sure all the Suna-nin teams advanced to the next round. However, Datsuji and his team refused to work alongside Shira anymore. He and the other Suna-nin then attacked Shira's team to take his scroll. As Shira's team was pinned down, Team Guy appeared and drove Datsuji and the other Suna attackers away.Naruto: Shippūden episode 399 

Despite setting a large trap to keep enemies from following them, Datsuji and the others were soon pursued by Rock Lee. As the team quickly recognised him as a taijutsu specialist like Shira, they kept him at bay with genjutsu before attacking him from afar. Soon afterwards, Lee's teammates and Shira's team arrived to save him. After Datsuji and the other Suna-nin were defeated, Shira surprisingly asked Lee's team to spare them. The Suna-nin were all shocked at how quick to forgive Shira was. As Shira explained that he admires Gaara so much for changing his life through perseverance and intends to do the same, Shira offered his exam scroll on the grounds that he was defeated before. Datsuji and the other Suna-nin however declined, instead giving Shira and Team Guy their respective scrolls as they lost this fight. Noting their own pride, they were still determined to pass the exam by getting a new heaven and earth scroll from other teams before leaving.Naruto: Shippūden episode 400