Title: Deepa
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Deepa
-----------------------

was an Inner from the organisation Kara.

 Personality 
Deepa was a blood-thirsty sociopath capable of killing people without any hesitation or true provocation. Due to his inhumanity and atrociousness, he wasn't understood by others.tv-tokyo.co.jp He was very battle-crazed, enjoying a good challenge if he could find it. Sadistic by nature, Deepa treated his target as prey for a hunt, looking at them as beneath him. He relished in the fear and pain he could inflict on others, even toying with them, such as pretending to be affected by his enemies' attacks, giving them false hope, only to end his façade and enjoy the expressions of confusion and terror of his opponents afterwards. 

Apparently a gourmet, he enjoyed trying as many different flavours as he could in the world. Due to his deranged nature, he had become a cannibal, desiring to taste the blood and flesh of his enemies as it intrigues him. At the same time, Deepa was a very random man. Whereas at one moment he would slaughter people on impulse, another moment he was remarkably calm and saw no need in killing someone who couldn't fight back. His greatest wish was to taste the fruit of the God Tree itself; which he believed to have the purest flavour in the world; upon seeing the artificial Tree that he and Victor conspired to recreate being incinerated, he lost his composure and flew into a violent rage at Team 7 for losing his chance to taste the fruit.

A very independent man, he cared little about other people's view of him, openly admitting that he knew his allies had little trust in him. He was very vain, viewing his refined-carbon form as the most beautiful thing in the world and thought himself invincible. Determined to keep himself a mystery, Deepa was committed to killing anyone who was not an ally once they see his face, but he nonetheless acted somewhat disrespectful towards his allies, such as Victor. Despite his sadistic nature, however, Deepa had a sense of honour, offering to spare Omoi's life should he reveal the location of the Hashirama Cell, and kept his word after Omoi's subordinates caved in, although in a twisted turn of events, killed Kakui and Marui instead as they weren't part of his promise. He also had a sense of responsibility, putting his mission before his personal joy.

Deepa apparently had a sense of humour, however morbid he may be, as Isshiki Ōtsutsuki noted how Deepa would make him laugh, even if not openly.

 Appearance 

Deepa was a tall and pale man of skinny yet well-defined build with short greyish purple hair and orange-red eyes. He had a tattoo of the Roman numeral "Ⅶ" below his eyes and light blue lipstick. He wore a black cloak with a maroon inner colour and thigh-length shinobi sandals. Beneath his cloak, Deepa wore a blue collared midriff shirt, a symmetrically bi-coloured apron tied around his waist, a long glove on his left arm, and a gauntlet-like fingerless glove on his right.

 Abilities 
As an Inner of Kara whose body was modified with Scientific Ninja Tools  and Shibai Ōtsutsuki's DNA by Amado,Boruto chapter 42, page 23 Deepa was regarded as being completely monstrous in terms of power and ability,Boruto chapter 31, page 3 with his abilities being viewed as superhuman.Boruto episode 187 He was capable of defeating a team of Kumogakure jōnin without fighting seriously, with Omoi viewing him as not having any weaknesses.Boruto episode 163

 Physical Prowess 
Specialising in close-range combat, he was blazingly fast and ferocious in taijutsu, able to calmly defend and repel group attacks, even against a team of master kenjutsu users. Likewise, his attacks were very powerful, able to strike down his foes with few blows and was very strong, able to effortlessly lift a grown man in the air with a single hand.Boruto episode 164 He had considerable aim, able to nonchalantly throw a simple dining knife at the bullseye of a dartboard without even looking.Boruto episode 162

 Ninjutsu 

Deepa was able to use Yin Release to project an image of himself to talk with people from a distance.Boruto episode 157 Deepa's signature ability was to control the molecular-bonding of the carbon that he was exposed to. By properly rearranging it inside his body, his skin turned dark and reflective akin to metal, which also turned the edges of his fingers into razor-sharp talons. He could control the change to affect any or all parts of his body. In this state, his body became highly resilient, able to endure Lightning Release assaults unfazedBoruto episode 166 and calmly block blades or chakra enhanced blows with his bare hands.Boruto episode 175 Even powerful explosions and techniques like the Rasengan had virtually no effect on him. His metallic form also greatly enhanced his strength, as a mere finger-flick could send a foe flying and his serious strikes could pierce through a person's chest.

Alternatively, he could freely manipulate any raw carbon around him, shaping them into a myriad of forms. He could seamlessly manipulate immense number of targets at once in various formations and launch with powerful concussive force to them as a relentless barrage of projectiles. He could also condense his projectiles for even more devastating attacks, one of which destroyed a huge Iron Sand wall that Shinki had erected.Boruto episode 169 As a final defence, Deepa could combine both natures of his technique, encasing himself in a massive armour of near-impenetrable might. The maximum power of his armour's defensive and offensive might was seen from the carbon being refined into diamond. Deepa did admit this armour had flaws, but didn't elaborate.

 New Era 
 Kara Actuation Arc 

Deepa was present when Jigen called a meeting with the Inners, informing them of the destruction of one their facilities in Amegakure set by an Outer. In the Land of Valleys, Deepa watches the pass while eating a fruit before dropping from a stone pillar. When a sample of Hashirama Senju's cells was stolen from Victor's company, Deepa was brought in to retrieve it. He learned that it was sold in the Land of Silence. Victor insisted to be a covert as possible in his mission, but Deepa didn't listen. Upon arriving in Curtain Village, Deepa attended a bar and ate a meal there while all of its other occupants were dead. He casually paid for his meal and left.

Upon investigating Fūshu Castle, he learned that Sakuya was recently killed, allegedly by Konoha-nin. Deepa slaughtered several looters to extract all the information available. He soon tracked down the Konoha-nin of Team 7. Realising that they did not have the Hashirama Cell, he demanded to be told where it was. Omoi and his team of Kumo-nin decided to face Deepa while the Konoha-nin went on ahead to retrieve the Hashirama Cell from the true culprits. Despite the Kumo-nin's best efforts, Deepa was able to easily counter their every attack, swiftly taking down his foes. Ultimately, Deepa soundly defeated Omoi, and began questioning him about the Hashirama Cell's location. While he refused to speak, Kakui and Marui soon recovered. Refusing to let Omoi die, they revealed that the target was on its way to the Land of Haze. Deepa promptly killed Omoi's team-mates, choosing to spare Omoi as he promised to, before making his way to the Land of Haze.

He soon caught up to the remaining two Haze Quadruplets and Konoha-nin, striking down the former with a sneak attack. As Deepa calmly showed off his impervious body, Victor arrived, deciding that Deepa was taking too much time and causing too much of a scene. Victor promptly faced off against the two jōnin while Deepa faced the genin, much to his displeasure. The genin tried to coordinate their efforts, but Deepa's technique proved unfazed and quickly defeated them. Asaka, the last of the quadruplets, offered to hand over the Hashirama Cell. Deepa gladly accepted the offer, but was then deceived by Asaka, who used his kinjutsu to attack Deepa, which failed. As Deepa turned his attention back on a fallen Boruto, Deepa was surprised by Mitsuki's Sage Mode. While unable to hurt Deepa, it slowed him down long enough for Mitsuki to retreat with his team-mates. Reluctantly, Deepa decided not to pursue as he had achieved his goal of retrieving the Hashirama Cell.

Upon returning to Victor's laboratory and getting into an argument on where they both stood in Kara, Deepa was sent to retrieve another important item. His assignment took him to the Land of Wind, where after eating at a restaurant, he proceeded to slaughter everyone inside. Upon leaving, he was spotted by Team 10, but chose to ignore them. Later, he found Team 10 and Team Shinki having unearthed a damaged puppet from Urashiki Ōtsutsuki. This was Deepa's objective, and he demanded to have it. When they refused, he attacked them with his carbon cubes. He was impressed at how well Shinki's Iron Sand was actually holding a decent resistance against him, prompting Deepa to get more serious. They executed a strategy to detain and take Deepa down, only for their final assault to prove powerless. After defeating them, he noticed that his hand was smouldering. Deepa took the puppet, only for it to be destroyed by Shinki's last act of defiance before passing out. Despite the children making him fail his mission, Deepa calmly left them alone and walked off.

Upon returning to Victor's company, he made no efforts to go unseen, storming through the front entrance and striking down the guard who tried to stop him. Victor was annoyed again by Deepa's lack of restraint. As Deepa reported his mission was a fail, he decided to go take a nap while Victor tended to an inspection from the Land of Valleys' daimyō. Victor reminded Deepa that the experiment was nearing its final stage. Deepa retorted that it was Victor's responsibility, while Deepa was only interested in enjoying the results.

Ultimately, Victor succeeded in his experiment to recreate the God Tree. The experiment caused major tremors in the area, alerting Deepa, who was annoyed that Victor pushed the final test early and without him. Deepa went to investigate and found Boruto and Sarada, vaguely remembering them. As he began relishing the final stages of the experiment, Boruto was furious to hear Deepa's lust for power from the Chakra Fruit. Deepa corrected Boruto, insisting that he had no desire to actually eat the fruit, merely savour the taste of it, as a way to experience the purest flavour the world has to offer. From that, Boruto and Sarada vowed to defeat Deepa, whom he laughed at.

Despite the genin's improved skill, and even the sudden return of Mitsuki, Deepa's carbon powers proved as infallible as ever, easily putting them on the defence with his barrage of attacks and remaining unfazed by their counters. He laughed at their continued stubbornness to accept defeat, soon turning annoyed that none of them showed any signs of despair. Boruto got in close to unleash his new Compression Rasengan. While Deepa laughed at this effort, he was quickly surprised to see Boruto's technique breaking through his durable skin. Recognising the danger, Deepa unleashed the final level of his carbon defence, encasing himself in armour to finally repel Boruto. As Deepa laughed at his opponent's failed attempt, he saw the God Tree dying. Horrified at the sight, Deepa was furious to be robbed a chance to taste the fruit. This distraction gave Boruto and his team an opening to strike with their combined Super Compression Rasengan, breaking through Deepa's armour and blasting him away. As Deepa laid in shock and defeat, he lamented that he missed out on what could have been the best taste he ever experienced before getting crushed to death by falling debris.

 Ao Arc 

left|
To hide evidence of his deception and convince others of his innocence, Victor retrieved Deepa's remaining body parts and used falsified evidence to pin the fiasco on him. Not trusting Victor's word, Jigen tasked Amado to restore Deepa's brain in order to interrogate him on what really transpired in the Land of Valleys, keeping his disembodied head in a tank. With this information, Koji Kashin was tasked with assassinating Victor, and having outlived his use, Jigen ordered Amado to destroy Deepa's head, which was completely dissolved.

 In Other Media 
 Video Games 
Deepa appears in one of the Naruto Mobile intro dedicated to the introduction of Mitsuki in Sage Mode into the game.

 Trivia 
 "Deepa" means "light" and "lamp" in Hindi. It may be a reference to DEEPA – Uniform deep matrix acidizing technology, a technology used for acidizing carbon materials, which may relate to Deepa's abilities.