Title: Denki Kaminarimon
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Denki_Kaminarimon
-----------------------

is a Konohagakure chūnin, and the heir to the Kaminarimon Company. He is a member of Team 5.

 Personality 
Denki is a rather shy boy and he is not able to stand up for himself. Denki says that he wants to stand up to his father so he can study and become what he wants. As shown from being influenced by Nue, Denki subconsciously has a strong hatred of being pushed around, even desiring revenge. Boruto however helped Denki overcome this insecurity, freeing him of Nue's influence. Denki becomes more confident in himself after the event when he joins the Academy.Boruto episode 1 Despite his general lack of self-confidence, he shows a keen business acumen and likewise strong devotion to this family's company continued success.Boruto episode 114 Also, he is noted to have a strong resolve in spite of his meekness. Likewise, he is always eager to expand his knowledge of science and machines.Boruto episode 239 He apparently has a strong dislike of bugs, regularly carrying bug-spray.Boruto episode 242

While a very modest and down-to-earth individual who normally tries to not make light of his family's wealth, he is not above using his good fortune to buy something he eagerly desires,Boruto episode 25 showing a rather materialistic side as he is into shopping. He has also shown a rather mischievous side. Delighting in his talents for computers and programs, he revels at the chance to test them by hacking secret files.Boruto episode 172

 Appearance 

Denki is a bespectacled boy with dark eyes and black chin-length hair some of which he gathers in a top-knot, allowing the rest to fall around his face. He wears a blue suit with white trimmings, matching shorts and sandals. He is particularly small for his age, standing as the shortest of all the Academy students. After becoming a genin, Denki's attire changes to a dark blue boy scout uniform that is comprised of a shirt and shorts, complete with a light blue scarf on his neck, as well as a blue forehead protector.

 Abilities 
While originally very weak and easily bullied, as he continued his studies in the Academy, his skill for ninjutsu has gradually grown.Boruto episode 11 While his combat prowess is still limited, he makes up for it with innovative and new-age methods. His talents let him be among the first in his graduating class to become a chūnin.

 Physical Prowess 
Since becoming a shinobi, Denki has shown noticeable agility.Boruto episode 12 He is also relatively strong, able to lift and carry a large and heavy man a considerable distance.Boruto episode 221 Some time after becoming a chūnin, Denki's taijutsu skill improved considerably, able to hold his own against the massive Kyohō Fuefuki.Boruto episode 251

 Ninjutsu 

He has some skill at using Fūinjutsu, but can't use them effectively due to his small chakra reserves. However, he can make up for this by using Cooperation Ninjutsu able to use both to restrict a person's movements and expand the might of this alongside fellow users.Boruto episode 37

While viewing himself as limited in its usage, Denki is able to use Lightning Release proficiently enough to enhance his physical capabilities and paralyse opponents. His increased striking power was enough to knock out an experienced samurai like Tsubaki Kurogane.Boruto episode 226

 Intelligence 
Denki is quite intelligent, showing enough skill with computers as he regularly uses them to assist his team on missions. On his personal computer he has stored information on other ninja, including their individual skills and mission performances. He has also used his computers to survey his surrounding area, being able to guide his teammates to desired locations.Boruto episode 62 Denki can also hack into other computers and cameras to gain information, as he once did to gain access to the Academy's security system. 

Sai deems Denki's broad range of knowledge, along with ability to analyse and formulate strategies to be ideal as a leader. During the written portion of a Chūnin Exam, he was able to discreetly pass answers to Iwabee through the use of a device that copied his movements. He is also rather scientific, able to perform advanced experiments with electronics, showing a strong understanding of technology. With such skill, he was able to better facilitate communication over long distances. His talents are also acknowledged by Katasuke Tōno, regularly letting Denki make use of his resources to let him design and build his own original tools.Boruto episode 222 These talents lead him to design a combat suit that greatly enhances his physical might, along with a motion sensor system that constantly analyses and anticipates enemy attacks, which has been compared to the Sharingan.

 New Era 
 Academy Entrance Arc 

He was bullied by a group of students in an alley where Boruto passed by and helped him. The two immediately became friends and Denki was inspired by Boruto to act on his own and pursue what he wants causing the former to have an argument with his father where a certain unknown shadowy figure overpowered him and "partially" controlled him. On the way to the opening ceremony of the Academy, Boruto saw Denki and followed him. He learned that Denki was planning to get his revenge from his bullies which surprised Boruto. There, Boruto saw something on Denki and thought it was peculiar. Following on the events on the train, Boruto learned that Denki was trying to collide their already defected train with another train defect. Due to Boruto's words and pursuing, Denki seemed to become aware of what he was doing, just in time of collision Boruto managed to swing the switch to move the train out of another rail and before Boruto might fell Denki saved him together with the bullies. Boruto and Denki then approached the opening ceremony using the defected train causing it to hit with the Seventh Hokage's stone face. The next day, Denki made it to the academy and seem to be friends with Sarada Uchiha and Chōchō Akimichi. 

Two weeks later, after Boruto's suspension ended and he finally joined the class, Denki greeted his new friend. Soon afterwards, Boruto performance in a practice run earned him second best in the class, which Denki congratulated Boruto on. Later, while trying to have lunch together in the class room, they got into a confrontation with the class' top student Iwabee Yuino. As the rebellious older student began speaking out on his views of strength being everything to ninja and Boruto represented the worst of the students being lazy, Denki stood up for his friend. He insisted that Boruto is as driven as anyone and wants to make a name for himself. Iwabee, annoyed at Denki talking back to him, grabbed him fiercely, to which Boruto came to Denki's aid. As two students began arguing about what it means to be shinobi, they decided to skip class to settle things in fight. Denki joined the rest of the class to watch the fight in a training arena. Ultimately, Boruto and Inojin Yamanaka's respective words resonated with Iwabee, ending the fight. Despite the pleasant ending, Denki and the rest of the class were fiercely scolded later by sensei Anko Mitarashi for skipping class.

During a class introducing students to summoning techniques, Boruto's continued antics to show off, Sarada scolded him on his foolishness. This sparked an argument between all the boys and girls. Later during their lunch break, Sarada began to fight with Boruto over who would get the last yakisoba bun. Shino appeared, insisting that they boys and girls settle things with a race challenge for a flag. The challenge quickly got heated. Denki used his computer skills to hack the Academy's security system but ultimately Denki was captured by the girls. In the end contest ended with the girls getting the flag. Despite their victory, the girls made peace with the boys after working together to save Chōchō from falling off the roof.

Later, the class gained a new transfer student from Otogakure named Mitsuki. Wanting the students to warm up to Mitsuki, Shino organised a welcoming party for the new student. When Shino's efforts for the party backfired with his insects, the class began to freak out, with Denki begging someone to make the insects go away, which Mitsuki did with his Wind Release: Breakthrough, causing even more damage to the Academy.

Later, the class was assigned by Shino to split into groups of three and each tail a different workplace for a few days to better understand non-shinobi life. Denki joined Iwabee in gong to the fireworks factory. While simple at first, Iwabee's over-eagerness caused several fireworks to go off. After learning that some of their friends were hospitalised and checking on them, Denki and Iwabee were soon recruited by Shikadai to help stop the culprit. They met up with their friends at the post office to discuss their plan. After leaving to patrol the village, the culprit attacked the empty post office, unleashing the spectre on the post chief Komame. However, Denki's team anticipated this, realising that they were being spied on before and corned the masked culprit. While half the group pursued the culprit, Denki's half stayed to save the possessed Komame. While ultimately saving the post chief, the spectre and culprit ultimately got away.

When another attack came, the area was closed off. Denki, along with Inojin and Shikadai, wondered where Boruto was, along with the missing Sumire. The following morning, they found Boruto, along with Sumire and Mitsuki in the field. They were soon joined by Sai and his unit, who took Sumire in for question. As Denki asked what happened, Boruto happily brushed it off, saying everything was fine.

Several weeks later, Shino decided to change up the three-man teams for their next challenge to determine the optimum pairings for graduation, where Iwabee insisted to team up with Denki. The following day, Inojin told his friends that his father has gathered files on Academies in other villages, making Denki wonder if Sumire was going to leave the Academy. During the challenges, Shino was then called aside concerning Sumire. As the class began discussing rumours that Sumire was being transferred to a different school, they were relieved to see her return to their class.

When the class began learning the Tree Climbing Practice, Denki was the only one in the class unable to effectively perform it. Worried that he would have to repeat the class as it was key to passing the year's final exam, a distraught Denki unintentionally compared himself to Iwabee's reputation. While Denki was ashamed of his statement, Iwabee merely brushed it off. As his friends tried to give him tips to better handle the skill of chakra-induced climbing, they explanations only further confused him. Metal offered to help Denki improve his focus and strength with cliff-climbing. During which, Denki met Metal's father Rock Lee, who was moved by Denki's determination and gave him a jumpsuit, insisting it would help. Later, Iwabee approached Denki. Not wanting Denki to be left behind like he was, Iwabee gave him better pointers on the climbing skill. As Denki began improving, he noticed that Iwabee was still struggling with his general school studies. The two then proceeded to tutor each other. On the day of the final exam, the two came across a burning building with children trapped inside. The two used their climbing skills to get inside and save the kids. Despite arriving too late for the test, Shino was moved by how effectively they used their climbing skills to save people, which was essentially what the tests are supposed to prepare a ninja for, and so decides to pass them.

After struggling with Water Surface Walking Practice, Denki was invited to go fishing with his friends. They went to the site on train, narrowly missing Sarada. They met Sarada where they went fishing, as she was tracking down a teddy bear she was supposed to deliver at the hospital.

 School Trip Arc 

In the anime, to improve relationships with other villages and symbolically show the warring era was over, the Seventh Hokage set up an official class trip for the Academy to go to Kirigakure. While Iwabee's class was thrilled, he himself was distrusting, given Kirigakure's dark history. Upon arriving, they were met with Kagura Karatachi, who was appointed by the Mizukage to act as the class's tour guide. When Iwabee wandered off into a back alley, Boruto and Denki pursued him. They where quickly confronted by Hassaku Onomichi who apparently despised Konohagakure citizens. After a small skirmish between Boruto, Shizuma Hoshigaki applauded Boruto and Iwabee's guts at facing them before calmly walking off. The class was later taken to meet Chōjūrō, the Sixth Mizukage, who welcomed the class to the village. Afterwards, the class was brought to old "Blood Mist" site of the Kiri Academy final graduation test. When Kagura solemnly told them about its history, the class was approached by a delinquent group, with their leader, Tsurushi Hachiya, openly expressing their distaste for outsiders. Hope to make a name for themselves at Boruto's expense as the Hokage's son, they attack, but were quickly fended off by Kagura and Iwabee. 

Later that night, as Denki was returning from a shopping spree, he was captured by same delinquents, who used Denki as bait to lure Boruto out. When Denki's friends came to rescue him, a fight quickly broke out. During which, Hachiya revealed Kagura's dark past as the grandson of the Fourth Mizukage and having his own personal bloodshed reputation from his Academy days. After defeating their enemies, to cheer up Kagura, they inviting him to play a card game with them. Later, Boruto asked Denki to make an excuse for him and Sarada if they were late for roll-call, insisting that he and Sarada had some school trip supervisory matters to handle.

 Graduation Exams Arc 

Before their graduation exams, Denki goes camping with his friends. As graduation exams for the ninja classes were nearing, Denki was interviewed along with the other students about their goals. Denki went alongside his father, who was very proud to hear how well Denki was doing in his studies, while at the same time Denki expressed his desire to become a famous ninja.

During the exams, taking up Shino's subtle offer to try stealing the test answers for the written test, Denki and his friends were able to easily pass the test. Later, during the practical and final test, the class was brought to the training field. There, the entire class was set up to face Shino, Anko Mitarashi and Konohamaru for 24 hours. While the teachers would still evaluate the students' respective improvements, the students' true test was against Kakashi Hatake. The Sixth Hokage quickly explained that he would only pass the first student who is able to take the single bell attached to his hip. As the test began, Denki soon found himself under a genjutsu by Anko. He soon after escaped it and joined his friends in facing Anko.

Ultimately, Anko defeated her foes and captured the Ino-Shika-Chō trio. After Denki regrouped with his friends, Boruto, deeply affected by Kakashi's hard words, Boruto apologised to his friends for "failing" them by dragging their performance down with his lazy attitude. However, Denki and all the others insisted that it was because of Boruto that they overcame so many of their problems. Inspired by Iwabee and the other students' praise, Boruto realised the truth behind the teaches' deceptions. He then conceived a series of plans to pass the test, which the friends all backed up. Together, they were able to eliminate the other teachers save the students that were captured, the latter of which in turn helped back Boruto's play against Kakashi. They all attacked Kakashi while disguised as Boruto, but the Sixth Hokage easily blocked their assault. This however was a setup, allowing the team to catch Kakashi in a Multiple String Light Formation. While pinning down Kakashi somewhat, he quickly repelled them with his Lightning Release. Ultimately, time ran out. However, despite no one getting the bell, Kakashi passed all the students as they succeeded at the test's true goal; loyalty and team-work.

 Genin Mission Arc 

Having been placed on Team 5 under Udon Ise's leadership with Iwabee and Metal, the team received their first mission from the Seventh Hokage. It involved gardening, which they succeeded in completing. Afterwards at Lightning Burger, Denki was amazed to hear Boruto's first mission involved combating shinobi.

 Byakuya Gang Arc 

With the continued thefts performed by the Byakuya Gang throughout Konohagakure, Team 5 was assigned alongside the other genin teams to help stop the self-proclaimed noble thieves. However, the genin were not permitted to engage the Byakuya Gang without aid from a chūnin or higher-ranked shinobi. Later, they were alerted to the Byakuya Gang's appearance. Following Iwabee's overzealous nature, Metal and Denki joined their team-mate in engaging the thieves, which resulted in Metal getting injured and being hospitalised. Even more, their reckless action at engaging the Byakuya Gang despite being ordered not to resulted in Team 5's temporary suspension and home detention.

Later, the Byakuya Gang's actions continued to gain more supporters. Even more, swarms of protesters began emerging in the village against various legitimate companies, fuelled by the Byakuya Gang's claims of the said companies being corrupt, one of which included Denki's family. Soon, Denki realised that certain people were acting out more than others. He shared his findings with Sarada, who used her Sharingan to confirm the outliers Denki uncovered were under genjutsu. He reported his findings to the police force, and earned praise from his father.

 Versus Momoshiki Arc 

Training with his teammates, the three are discovered by Sarada, leading to Denki telling her that they're not going to lose to her or Boruto. Afterwards, the genin approached Udon, to get his permission to participate in the Chūnin Exams.

During the first exam, they were giving a question and told to stand next to the what the believed to be the right answer. Ultimately, the question was revealed to be bluff, as both answers resulted in the genin falling into a pit. Iwabee however used his Earth Release to save his team from hitting the ink and avoid elimination. During the second exam, which was a capture-the-flag competition, Denki and his team were swiftly defeated by Shinki's Magnet Release and eliminated. On the day of the final round, Denki watched the competition with his teammates. He and his team-mates cheered for Boruto when he defeated Shinki to win the tournament, but were very distraught when learning that he cheating used an advanced ninja tool, the Kote, which was deemed banned from the Chūnin Exams and thus was disqualified.

When Momoshiki and Kinshiki Ōtsutsuki appeared and began devastating the arena, Denki used his laptop to look up the design of the arena, plotting out the best escape route. After the attack ended and the Seventh Hokage saved all the lives there at the cost of being captured himself, Denki was sent to the hospital to tend the citizens' injuries. A few days later, after the Ōtsutsuki were defeated and things began returning to normal, Denki helped in repairing the village.

Later, Denki went to watch a lecture from the legendary taijutsu master and hero of the Fourth Shinobi World War, Might Guy, about proper close-range tactics in the hopes of improving his own taijutsu skill.

 Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc 

In the anime, after the apparent betrayal of Mitsuki to Konohagakure and his desertion, the village was put on lockdown. Later, when Boruto approached Denki and his team to see if they had seen Mitsuki, they informed him they hadn't.

As Denki and his team continued their patrol duties during the lockdown, they bumped into a frantic Yurito. He claimed that someone attacked one of the guards in recovery and was rushing to get help, but Udon saw through the lie as Yurito would have sent someone else to report such an act as he was head of the Medical Security. Realising he was found out, Yurito took Denki hostage, only for the genin to escape with a flash bomb. As the team's genin attempted to subdue Yurito, Udon realised that he was under genjutsu. He proceeded to free him. As the man began coming to his senses, a C1 Explosive Clay emerged from his flack jacket, detonating and injuring Yurito.

Later, after eavesdropping on the Hokage, Denki and his friends learned of the danger Team 7 was in at Iwagakure. The genin were determined to help their friends and requested to join the Hokage. While Naruto initially refused to put the genin in danger, the group firmly said they will go with or without his approval. Admiring their loyalty to their friends, Naruto decided to let them. Upon arriving at Iwa however, the battle was already won and Team 7 was safe, leaving Denki and the others relieved.

The victory however came at the personal sacrifice of the Third Tsuchikage. While the Konoha-nin wanted to attend the funeral, Naruto sent them all back to Konohagakure.

 Time Slip Arc 

In the anime, when the Kaminarimon Company designed a new surveillance equipment designed to follow their location, Denki and the other genin were tasked with giving it a field test. During which Urashiki Ōtsutsuki was spotted in the area, Denki joined several other Konoha-nin in pursuing him. However, this turned out to be division by the alien, who placed a genjutsu on them to let him sneak into the village.

The following day, with Urashiki having been reported as killed by Sasuke and Boruto, Denki was free to enjoy the day with his father, who took him for a walk around the village. Eriki told Denki how it was from a random traveller (who was actually a time-travelling Boruto) that he was inspired to create the train system.

Later, some time after Urashiki was finally defeated, when Sumire Kakei resigned from her genin team to join the Scientific Ninja Weapons Team, Denki joined his friends in a farewell party for the former class rep.

 Kara Actuation Arc 

After Team 7 was defeated by Deepa, Denki and his team went to check on Boruto who was recovering in the hospital. They were surprised to see how relaxed and upbeat the he was. While everyone else was happy about, Iwabee grew concerned, and feared that their friends lost the will to be shinobi. When Denki and his friends went to check on Boruto and Sarada, they were horrified to see that they secretly left the hospital. Iwabee came to the new conclusion that Boruto and Sarada were looking for revenge for revenge against for what happened to Mitsuki. Sakura deduced that the two would meet up with Konohamaru to join him on his undercover mission. Upon arriving, the group was relieved to see that Boruto and Sarada had resolved to leave the mission to the jōnin for now and instead focus on getting strong enough to rejoin the battlefield.

After learning that Boruto was hospitalised following a match against Shojoji, Team 5 visited him. In the hospital, they met a patient named Nattō, who was causing trouble for the staff. Learning that they were shinobi, Nattō asked them to get an autograph from Orochimaru on his Extreme: Shinobi Picture Scrolls trading card. They initially refused, but later agreed to it upon learning of Nattō's upcoming surgery, which he was dreading. Finding out Orochimaru's location from the Hokage's office records, they were warned to be very careful by a Konoha jōnin who was filling in for Yamato in monitoring Orochimaru. They stumbled on Suigetsu, and began fight him, only to be overwhelmed. Orochimaru stopped the fight, and while incredulous of their intention, autographed the card anyway. Team 5 returned the card to Nattō, and admitted they were scared to do it, noting that one needs to be brave, inspiring him to have his surgery.

Later, Denki began setting up an experiment to improve radio communications. His friends helped him with the work. It ultimately worked, but failed to maintain stability. Denki however remained determined to improve the technology. Denki's project and aid of his friends impressed the Seventh Hokage.

 Ao Arc 

In the anime, Denki attended the memorial service for the fallen people of the Fourth Shinobi World War. Later, Denki watched the sparing match between the Seventh Hokage and Boruto at the Training Hall, impressed both by Boruto's improved skill and Naruto's mysterious new ability to absorb enemy techniques.

 Kawaki Arc 

In the anime, when Kawaki was brought to the village for his ties to Kara, it was decided that the boy would be treated as a guest in the Hokage's home. Denki and his friends soon met him. Over time, Kawaki began warming up to everyone, even learning how to play Extreme: Shinobi Picture Scrolls. Later, as Denki and his friends were playing cards, the group began discussing their views on Kawaki, with Denki feeling they should give him a chance.

Prior to the village's attack by Jigen, word spread that a village archive was attacked and data on shinobi was stolen. Denki noted that the Kaminarimon Company was in charge of digitising the shinobi records that were stolen. Denki and his team-mates were impressed to hear later that Team 10 were able to stop the culprit, Koji Kashin, from stealing more data.

 Chūnin Re-Examination Arc 

Following Isshiki's attack, Naruto decided to host another Chūnin Exam to boost morale and promote more capable shinobi. Denki helped his team pass the written exam, passing Iwabee the answers through a device that copied his movements. When he expressed concern that he would hinder his team-mates during the practical portion of the exam, Boruto cheered him up. Denki gave Boruto information on Kaito Kawanami when he didn't recognise him. During the second exam, Denki was able to use his extensive analytic abilities to find an injured ally, a man much bigger than him, and carry him out of the Forest of Death within the allotted time limit. He was one of the 10 genin to pass the second exam, and would have to battle one-on-one with another genin for the final exam.

The following day, Denki and his team-mates went to the Scientific Ninja Weapons Team lab to prepare for the finals. Knowing that his physical combat skills were weak compared to the other finalists, Denki took advantage of the allowance of scientific ninja tools developed by the participants. He tested his new creation again Metal, soundly defeating him. Tsubaki Kurogane later took notice of his battered appearance.

During the finals, Denki checked on Iwabee before his match against Wasabi, where he was firing himself up. Denki cheered on him, but he lost his match. After Sarada defeated Chōchō in the third match, Denki observed that all remaining opponents he could go up against were very strong. The fourth match was set up to be Boruto against Mitsuki, but as neither were present, they were disqualified, and the final match, between Denki and Tsubaki began. Using a Lightning Release Suit of his own design, Denki was able to pressure Tsubaki with a combination of enhanced reflexes and predictive analysis of her movements. Tsubaki was eventually able to adapt, and destroyed the motion sensor visor. The prolonged fight caused the suit, still a prototype, to start overheating, so Denki chose to sacrifice it to block one of her attacks, giving himself an opening to defeat her with his Lightning Release. While exhausted, he remained conscious when Tsubaki did not, so he was declared the winner. His friends cheered for him, and afterwards his team and Team 15 celebrated his and Wasabi's promotions to chūnin together. A few days later, Denki joined the ceremony to make his promotion official and was appointed the captain of his team.

When Kawaki was being tested to earn qualification as a genin, one of his missions was along Team 5. Completing the mission, the boy showed little interest, falling asleep as Denki's plan was executed. Denki voiced his concern about Kawaki's attitude.

 Great Sea Battle of Kirigakure Arc 

In the anime, Denki and his team were assigned their first B-rank mission, tasked with delivering brand-new automated puppets to aid gold mining in Dotō Island in the Land of Water. Once there, they were also to fine-tune the puppets' setting until its developers joined them. Denki spent the night before the mission and the way to the island learning about the puppets capabilities and the island complex geological structure. At the island, while setting up the puppets, bandits revealed themselves among the mine workers, stealing some gold and locking everyone in. From his research, Denki was able to use the puppets to dig a way out without collapsing the mine. Reminding Katasuke's words about adapting to the situation, he employed the puppets to track the bandits through the stolen gold and stopped them from escaping. His performance earned praised from the mining chief.

Later, the Funato Clan attacked the island, capturing all its inhabitants and the Konoha research team. Team 5 was forced to retreat and wait for an opportunity act. With the help of his puppet, Denki was able to guide Sarada and Mitsuki to them, who were already on a mission to help Team 5. Catching each other up, they designed a plan to rescue the hostages, Team 5 being responsible for securing a ship for their escape. Denki took out the guards in the control room with a smoke-flash bomb, but struggled to hotwire the ship, successfully resorting to his Lightning Release in the end.

On the way back to rendezvous with Kagura and the others, Iwabee alerted them of a massive Chakra Cannon from the enemies' fortress ship. Denki narrowly steered the ship away to dodge the first shot. However, everyone was saved by Kagura's team, having turned the Chakra Cannon back on the fortress. After picking up Kagura and the others, Team 5 was horrified to see members of the New Seven Ninja Swordsmen. Sarada however assured them that they were technically allies now, before they all returned to Kirigakure.

The following morning, Taiki was discovered to have been murdered. Suspicion fell on Kyohō, who was found cleaning blood off Kabutowari, and who had recently gone through a rage he had no memory of. He claimed innocence. Denki partnered with Kawaki to search the ship. A witness came forth with damning testimony, but Kawaki noticed inconsistencies in it, and already suspicious of how fast word of the murder had spread, set up a trap by faking Kyohō's death. This exposed Kobanza, who was chased to the engine room, where he killed himself to damage the ship's engine. Despite his best efforts, Denki was unable to repair it.

Eventually, they were discovered by master shipbuilder, Kajiki. He applauded Denki's skill to keep the ship going for as long as he did, much to his joy. Unable repair the engine, Kajiki instead towed the ship back to his port for proper repairs. There, Denki was eager to help with repairs, wanting to know as much as possible should more trouble happen to the ship. Midway through, they learned that Kajiki's apprentice, Ikada, failed to stock up on a crucial piece for the engine. Boruto was sent with Ikada to retrieve it while Denki continued helping with all other available repair and also serve the islanders food.

Later that night, the Funato Clan attacked the island, using leeches to control various people. Denki acted fast, saving himself and his team-mates by using bug-spray on them. As Metal dealt with more controlled citizens, Denki joined Iwabee in protecting the repaired ship. By morning, the Funato attack had been foiled, Denki and Kagura recovering a coded message from where one of the fights took place.

Denki struggled to decipher the message along Sarada and Kagura until Iwabee made an origami related comment, which inspired Kagura on how to fold the paper, revealing its contents. The Funato planned to use the sea battle as a distraction to launch a sneak attack on Kirigakure while most of their forces were away. Kagura took them to his childhood village, which was on the route the Funato were taking, hoping to intercept them. Denki was tasked with helping to destroy to villages in order to funnel the Funato into a ravine, putting them at a disadvantage.

The next day, Denki and Iwabee spied on the Funato as they reached the destroyed bridges. Seeing that the sent scouts ahead, the two rushed back to the village to warn everyone. Needing to trick the scouts there was nothing suspicious about the village, they began evacuating the villagers. One of them had a baby who began to cry, but Denki disguised the sound by making it seem it was a cat.

At the ravine, after preparing traps, Team 5 was sent to protect the village, but rushed back after being alerted of complications by a snake sent by Mitsuki. They arrived just in time to block Funamushi's attack with a landslide. Everyone retreated to the village, where non-combatants were evacuated, and water sources were blocked to deter Funamushi's jutsu. When the Funato arrived, Denki fought them off. Undeterred, Funamushi drained his own men's blood to use his jutsu. When Kagura was weakened by cutting through Funamushi's attack, he was held hostage by Funamushi, causing everyone to drop their weapons. They watched in shock as he stabbed Kagura through his chest.

Furious with Funamushi, everyone retaliated. He initially repelled them with his Water Release, but Boruto activated his Kāma and landed a Rasengan, prompting a Funato retreat. Kagura's wound was too severe, and he died after asking everyone to protect the village. After Kagura's funeral, everyone agreed to follow Sarada's orders, who decided to wait on the village as Funamushi was certain to return still wishing for revenge, choosing to respect Kagura's final wish. While recovering from the attack, they discovered the food storage had been destroyed, so Team 5 volunteered to forage for food, which would also allow them to catch Funato movement near the village and report it back. However, it didn't amount to much, and the village had to ration food. The villagers were foregoing eating so the shinobi could have a better chance at defending them, but they chose to let the villagers eat instead. Some children told Kawaki of fruit-bearing trees beyond the mountains, who also guided Denki and Iwabee there. Upon arriving, they came across several Funato clansmen, who outnumbered and captured them.

While a subordinate wanted to have them killed, Funamushi merely kept them as prisoners upon learning they were gathering food for the children. The next day, the Funato left in a hurry upon learning of Funamushi's defeat, so Iwabee took the opportunity to free himself and Denki. They made their way back to the village two days later and recounted the events, sparking much discussion about revenge. When Boruto later revealed that Funamushi's son Kobuna attacked him to get revenge on his father, Denki acknowledged the complexity of the situation that Boruto raised. He was shocked to learn that Ikada was a Funato.

Having it confirmed by listening to Araumi's broadcast, even hearing Ikada himself, they discussed the situation. Boruto, supported by Sarada and Mitsuki, wished to get to Kirigakure to stop the war, but the swordsmen, wishing their own revenge on the Funato, attacked them. Iwabee and Denki protected them, Denki admitting that if Iwabee hadn't acted first, he'd have ordered him to do so as his captain, allowing Team 7 to escape.

As both sides continued to fight and exhaust themselves, Metal eventually spoke up, insisting that they would bring no peace to Kagura and Hebiichigo if they continued fighting each other and that they must unite for the upcoming war. Denki and Iwabee ultimately agreed to stop fighting. Putting their differences aside, the group decided to reunite with their allies. They learned that Team 7 had boarded the Funato's main warship. 

Acquiring a boat, Denki piloted it for the group to speed off to aid Team 7. They arrived in time to watch Boruto sacrifice himself to the Funato to end the war. Between Boruto willingly throwing himself into the raging water to die and his team-mates honouring his sacrifice, Ikada had a change of heart. He saved Boruto and agreed to end the war, a sentiment that was shared with his men.

Back in Konoha, Denki had to stop Kawaki and Iwabee from fighting when Kawaki was bothered by an argument he had with Boruto.

 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

When the Academy held a festival, Denki attended it with his friends. They visited the festivals haunted house experience, which was very effective on them. When Neon and Harika explained what went behind it, Denki promised them to put in a word about developing the technology to his father. When the festival received a terrorist threat, Denki and other former students offered to help deal with the situation, removing explosive tags around the area.

 Trivia 

 Denki's name, when written as 電気, means "electricity". His last name, literally meaning "Lightning Gate", most likely comes from one of two gates locating in Asakusa, Tokyo, Japan.
 Denki is loosely based on Denki Raimon, a fanmade original character that won the Boruto: Naruto Next Generations Chapter #3 Borukura original character contest, created by Aoyagi Yūta of Gunma Prefecture. His final design for the anime was changed considerably, and the reading of his surname was changed from "Raimon" to "Kaminarimon".
 Though he has yet to appear in the manga directly, in Volume 11 page 130 of Boruto: Naruto Next Generations Denki was referenced as a new type of shinobi, specialising in advanced technology.