Title: Dokku
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Dokku
-----------------------

is a citizen from Tonika Village.

 Background 

In his youth, Dokku was close friends with Shiseru, a girl from the Hachō Village. One day while playing, Shiseru fell over the edge of a cliff. Dokku managed to grab her hand and hold her for almost an hour, but was too weak to pull her up. After some time, the grip loosened and Shiseru fell. Luckily, she landed on a tree and survived, but frustration at his inability to save her led Dokku to become part of Tonika village's local militia. Years later, however, he was fired for unknown reasons and became a teacher.Naruto: Shippūden episode 291

 Personality 

Dokkue is a very brave and dutifully man, not hesitating to risk his own life to save that of several others. He is also fond of children, caring for the children he managed to rescue as if they were his own. He feels regret every time he fails to save someone. Since the day he failed in rescuing Shiseru as a child, he seems to have a low self-esteem and views himself as being weak. He feels regret whenever he cannot save someone, shown when he was nearly brought to tears when lamenting that he couldn't rescue more villagers.

 Appearance 

Dokku is a 36 year old,Character profile rather portly man with short brown hair, and a receding hairline. He wears square framed glasses and has a short moustache and pointed beard. He has the complex tattoo of Tonika village's militia on his right hand. As heard in the episode, Leo refers him as fat, whilst Miina opposes it. When being younger, he was very slim. He has many large scars on his body. Usually, he wears casual clothing that contains a light yellow T-shirt and navy blue pants with brown crocs. He once had a brown sleeveless jacket until he gave it to Miina.

 Abilities 
While displaying no particular abilities, he did manage to survive his village's destruction whilst saving several children. Miina and Leo also refer to him as sensei, suggesting his expertise in the teaching of one field or another with their grandfather specifically stating his ability more as a teacher than a guard. He is rather strong, able to carry both Miina and Leo on his shoulders for a considerable time despite wounded and was also fast enough to catch them after they jumped out of their windows.

 Part II 
 Power 

When his village was attacked, Dokku was the one to find Miina and Leo trapped in their house. He told Miina to jump as he was ready to catch her, but she was too afraid of the height. Dokku encouraged her to trust him, and successfully saved her after she finally jumped. After rescuing Leo, he carried both of them out of the village; once they were safe, he returned to the village to lend his aid. Before he left, he gave Miina his jacket, and tasked the two children with getting help from the neighbouring Hachō Village. He managed to rescue three other children as well, Sora, Lando and Faz, but was greatly wounded during the night, forcing him to use a crutch. Later, on his way to Hachō Village himself, he met Leo and Miina once again, happily hugging the latter.

Eventually, Dokku and the kids arrived in Hachō Village and were allowed to live in Shiseru's house. Days later, Dokku, Miina, and Sora were out buying food when a fight between Leo and Faz broke out, which Miina was able to stop by playing on a wooden sticcado. When they arrived at their new home, Dokku mistook Naruto Uzumaki as one of the enemies who destroyed their village and told everyone to flee. As Leo convinced him to run over a fragile bridge, Dokku took Miina and attempted to cross, only for it to breaku under their weight. Dokku apologised to Miina as they fell, but Naruto saved them with a chain of shadow clones. Realizing his mistake, Dokku apologises to Naruto and Sakura Haruno.

Later, after sharing a meal, Dokku told Naruto about his background and that he wished for more power, so he could have saved more citizens. Afterwards, he discussed the massacre with Yamato and Sai, recalling nearly being killed by Hayate Gekkō and the village head entrusting him with two bars for unknown reasons, keeping the latter part a secret from the two. That night, he and Shiseru watched the five orphans as the slept, holding hands.

The next day, Dokku went with the group to the beach and leaves for a short time with Shiseru to buy drinks. As they go home, Lando and Miina cling happily to him. He is shocked when Shiseru slaps Miina due to her bothering Naruto and needs to calm her down. Later, Disonasu appears with the Tonika Village Head. Dokku and the Village Head talk about the bars they exchanged when Miina rams her grandfather away, revealing that he is in fact a reanimated corpse. As more corpses attack, Miina tries to drive out the snakes Naruto was infected with while Dokku tries to pull her back. He is shocked as the rest when Miina actually succeeds and the snakes become a copy of his version 2 jinchūriki form. 

As reinforcements from Konoha arrive, Dokku and his family try to flee the battle. When they reach a safe distance, Miina begs Dokku to rescue Naruto, who was knocked out by the Nine-Tailed Naruto Clone. Dokku entrusts the children to Shiseru and dashes towards Naruto, only to slip and fall. Just when the clone is about to trample them. He and Naruto are rescued by Kabuto, who stores them within a snake and takes them to the underground hall of Tonika Village. Dokku unsuccessfully tries to break out, then tries freeing a recovering Naruto, only to be scared off when the ropes binding the shinobi turn out to be snakes. Helpless, Dokku tries to tell Naruto not to blame himself, just to be shouted at by a Kurama-possessed Naruto. After he remembers his discussion with Shiseru about adopting the children, he once again tries to stop snap Naruto out of it, asking him where he gets his strength from. This leads Naruto to remember his true goals and motives to get stronger, stopping the influence of Kurama. Moments later, Kabuto appears with two reincarnated shinobi and Disonasu, who reveals himself to be responsible for the massacre of Dokku's village. Dokku is asked by Disonasu if he could even understand the power he is carrying with him. Disonasu then pulls out a scroll and summons a mysterious light from it, much to Dokku's shock.

When Disonasu confesses that he was the one who ordered the massacre of Tonika Village, Dokku tries to attack him, but was stopped by Inabi Uchiha and a Taki-nin. Disonasu toys with him, trying to learn the location of the last pieces he needs to use the Saezuri. When Kabuto reveals the children of Tonika Village have arrived, Dokku threatens Disonasu. As the Ama no Hoko was activated, he shook off his subduers and runs towards the children, scolding them for being so reckless. After they reunite with Shiseru, the group tries to flee but are stopped by lightning caused by the Ama no Hoko, forcing them to go back. Dokku then reveals he knows how to stop the Ama no Hoko, so he and Shiseru say a farewell to the children and run toward the building. Along the way, Dokku tells Shiseru that he wants to marry her if both survive.

After the family happily reunites, they all thank Naruto for everything he did for them.