Title: Doseki Ganryū
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Doseki_Ganryū
-----------------------

is an Academy student of Konohagakure.

 Personality 
Like his classmates, he is quite curious and has watched princess Kae and Kawaki's behaviour with interest.

 Appearance 
Doseki is a very large boy with plump cheeks and grey eyes. He has short, curly brown hair, and the most prominent part of his appearance is his bushy unibrow. Doseki wears a green T-shirt and brown pants tied with black cloth.

 New Era 
 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

Doseki attended the Academy opening ceremony as part of a new class. His classroom was put under the care of new teacher Hana Kaka. His class included many children of famous people, including the daughter of an acting duo, the daughter of the Seventh Hokage, and Kae Yukiwari, the princess of the Land of Bamboo. The class also included Kawaki, a noticeably older student.

Later, a practice session was used for various competitions to teach the students how to work as teams of 3. Doseki was teamed up with Ran Sōgi and Yuina Itomaki.

When his class had to put a play about the Sannin, Doseki was part of the group who helped build the stage under Neon's direction. After it was damaged by Eiki's struggle with Kawaki, Doseki joined everyone in the repair efforts.

The day of the festival, Doseki helped his classmates set up the stands and decorations. When the festival received a terrorist threat, he stayed inside. Later, following Hana being hospitalised from the terrorist attack, Doseki joined his class in welcoming back their teacher.

To make up for the festival being cancelled, Hana arranged for the class to undergo survival training on an uninhabited island. However, Kikuchiyo was injured and their food supplies vanished, stoking fear about a rumour of killer missing-nin settling on the island. Everyone formed groups to scavenge food, and later to look for Neon's damaged drone. Doseki and Tao wanted to search the island, having the advantage of numbers, but Kawaki argued against it, pointing out how diminished their surveillance capabilities were. By night, everyone enjoyed their food.

Attracted by an explosion, the class encountered Kawaki and Himawari, who revealed that Hana, actually an assassin, had killed Kae. Himawari pointed out that her actions made more sense if Hana wanted to keep Kae as a hostage. Working together, the students tracked Kae and Hana to a cave. Finding the situation too dangerous for the students, Kawaki revealed himself as a shinobi, and credited them for helping find Kae. Eiki still believed there was something they could do, leading them to the docks, hoping to get word of the situation out. They came across Sai, who came to the island with Team 25 after discovering Hana's Land of Bamboo background. Upon finding Hana defeated, her teacher personality struggled against the assassin one, eventually prevailing with the encouragement of her students and regaining control. As Kae had to return home, the class finally put on the Sannin play, and later saw her off at the train station. 

 Trivia 
 "Doseki" (土石) means "soil and rock". If part of his family name is combined with it, the word dosekiryū (土石流) means "debris flow".