Title: Dōshu Goetsu
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Dōshu_Goetsu
-----------------------

is a genin of Konohagakure. He is a member of Team 40.

 Personality 
Dōshu is a very responsible boy and loyal to his friends.

 Appearance 
Dōshu is a young boy with brown hair, bangs that cover his left eye and brown eyes. He wears a green hat, a jumper of same colour, a dark purple vest, a green scarf, blue trousers and ghost blue sandals. After graduating from the Academy, he wears his forehead protector on the right side of his hat.

 Abilities 
left|
While still in the Academy, Dōshu became very capable in fūinjutsu and Cooperation Ninjutsu. With the former, he can restrict a person's movements and with both he can expand the might of this alongside fellow users.Boruto episode 37 During missions, he uses chakram restraints he can deploy from a distance. He is also very accurate with a blowgun.Boruto episode 139 Sometime after becoming a genin, he was also trained in medical ninjutsu.Boruto episode 152

 New Era 
 Academy Entrance Arc 

On the day of the entrance ceremony, as everyone began looking for an absent Boruto Uzumaki, he suddenly appeared, crashing a train into the Hokage Monument, which left Dōshu amazed at his antics.

Later, his class was assigned from Shino Aburame to shadow a non-shinobi workplace to better understand its lifestyle.

 School Trip Arc 

Dōshu and his class went to Kirigakure for a field trip, where they were greeted by their tour guide, Kagura Karatachi.

 Graduation Exams Arc 

During the graduation exams, Dōshu struggled against the proctors' superior skill. However, following Boruto's plan, they were able to eliminate the other proctors and face Kakashi Hatake to take the bell from him. Despite their group assault, Kakashi easily repelled all the students. This however proved to be a setup to get the Sixth Hokage in a group String Light Formation. Despite their effort, Kakashi was still able to hold them off. Ultimately, time ran out with no one getting the bell. However, Kakashi still chose to pass everyone as they succeeded in the test's true goal; teamwork and loyalty. Later, he was put on Team 40 alongside Enko Onikuma and Tsuru Itoi.

 Byakuya Gang Arc 

With the continued thefts performed by the Byakuya Gang throughout Konohagakure, Team 40 was assigned alongside the other genin teams to help stop the self-proclaimed noble thieves. However, the genin were not permitted to engage the Byakuya Gang without aid from a chūnin or higher-ranked shinobi.

 Versus Momoshiki Arc 

His team participates in the Chūnin Exams, but due to falling into a pit of ink, they fail the first phase.

 The Samurai Exchange Student 

Sometime later, after Sumire Kakei resigned from her genin team to join the Scientific Ninja Weapons Team, Dōshu joined his friends in a farewell party for the former class rep.

 The Terror! Enko Onikuma 

When Enko's secret technique acted up, she injured her jōnin leader. Eventually, Team 40 was assigned Ibiki Morino as their new team leader. However, he immediately decided to disband Team 40, viewing that Dōshu and Tsuru's continued fear of Enko's power would only inhibit performance and instead decided to train Enko personally as an interrogator.

left|
Wanting to help their friends, Boruto, Sarada, and Mitsuki began helping Tsuru and Dōsho to master their fear, hoping to convince Ibiki to reinstate their team. After their various attempts failed, Tsuru and Dōsho found stray cat. Despite being friendly to it, the cat was scared of them and ran from them. This experience helped Tsuru and Dōsho to understand what Enko must go through all the time. Later, they chanced upon Enko going berserk again while Ibiki struggled to detain her and even considered cutting off her arms. Knowing that her rampage came from her feelings of loneliness, the two were able to reach her, insisting they won't leave their friend. Their genuine friendship ultimately calmed her down. Ultimately, Ibiki conceded that the three genin together would be best for Enko and officially reinstated Team 40.

Eventually, Dōshu began taking medical ninjutsu training as it became mandatory that at least one member of team be a medical-nin.

 Ao Arc 

Dōshu attended the memorial service for the fallen shinobi of the Fourth Shinobi World War. Later, at the Training Hall, he watched Boruto Uzumaki fight the Seventh Hokage alongside other genin.

 Chūnin Re-Examination Arc 

Dōshu and his team participated in the new Chūnin Exams held by Naruto Uzumaki in order to promote more chūnin. He and his team passed the first test, however, they failed the second test in the Forest of Death when they fell into a sand pit.

 Trivia 
  is a yojijukugo for rivals or enemies being placed in a situation together.
 Dōshu has been seen using Fire Release in one of the Boruto endings.