Title: Ebizō
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Ebizō
-----------------------

, called  by the Suna villagers, is highly revered in Sunagakure. He and his older sister, Chiyo, are known as the .

 Personality 
He is a very calm, reserved, and apathetic person, especially when compared to his sister, who often appeared at times impulsive in her actions. He also seems to be very analytical in his thinking. After Gaara had been kidnapped by the Akatsuki, leaving all of Sunagakure worried and panicked, Ebizō urged Temari and other Suna-nin to keep a level head and not allow their panicking thoughts cloud their judgement to prevent them from blindly rushing into enemy territory and getting themselves killed, showing a very keen-minded mindset regarding chaotic situations.

Like Chiyo, Ebizō believed that the village should be strong enough to look after itself without being so reliant on the previous generation or other villages, and showed disappointment when they were so helpless in saving Kankurō from poison. He is also described as optimistic; when Chiyo's pessimistic views were proven wrong when Kankurō was healed by Sakura Haruno, a top-notch medical shinobi, he reminded Chiyo that times have changed from when he and his sister were young. Despite his usually apathetic demeanour, he still cares for those people who are close to him, as he was saddened by his sister's death.

 Appearance 
Ebizō is an elderly man that is characterised by his heavy-lidded eyes that give him the appearance of actually having no eyes at all. He also has very long eyebrows that frame each side of his face. Along with a turban wrapped around his head, he wears the traditional Sunagakure outfit which consists of a dark coloured, loose fitting outfit with a poncho-like top.

 Abilities 
Though little is known of his skills, it was stated that he has a strong and analytical mind that served him and Sunagakure well during the previous shinobi wars and even in his old age.

 Part II 
 Kazekage Rescue Mission 

When Baki came to the siblings for help for Akatsuki abducting Gaara, they at first refused, seeing themselves no longer part of the outside world. However, when Sasori's membership in the organisation came up, they changed their minds. Upon seeing the poisoned Kankurō, Ebizō commented how much the village has weakened. 

Ebizō later joined a team consisting of Temari, Kankurō, Matsuri, Maki, and other Suna-nin in order to support the Kazekage Rescue Team. Once the rest of the team, save for Temari and Kankurō, were exhausted, Ebizō shared the story behind the Third Kazekage's disappearance and how Sunagakure fell into chaos due to everyone searching blindly and panicking, leaving them open to be attacked, and urged the team to remain calm regarding Gaara's kidnapping and take their time to prevent total annihilation. Following Gaara's rescue and Chiyo's self-sacrifice, Ebizō mourned his sister's death, hoping it was another one of her jokes, but he couldn't help but smile at how peaceful she looked.

 Five Kage Summit 

Ebizō could be seen standing just in front of Baki and Matsuri, along with the other villagers, seeing Gaara, Kankurō and Temari off as they left to the Kage Summit, telling them to take good care of Gaara.

 Blank Period 
 Gaara Hiden: A Sandstorm Mirage 

During one of Gaara's routine meetings with the Suna Council, Ebizō reveals that he and the rest of the Council would like for Gaara to get married. Because Temari is about to marry into a Konoha clan, any children she has will be Konoha ninja. This means a Konoha ninja would have a claim to the Kazekage position if Gaara dies before producing a heir. Therefore, the Council would like Gaara to find a wife so that he can, in turn, have children. When Gaara resists this, the Council insists that their interest in seeing Gaara married is more of a recompense for turning him into a jinchūriki years ago than it is a political matter. Unable to argue out of the situation, Gaara accepts the marriage meeting that the Council has arranged. In light of Ebizō's declining health, he eventually stepped down as the head of the Suna Council, a position that Tōjūrō eyed for.

 Trivia 
 Ebizō's name might come from , a stage name taken on by a series of kabuki actors of the Ichikawa family.
 According to the databook(s):
 His hobby is fishing in his and Chiyo's fish pond.

 Quotes 
 (To Chiyo) "Sister… time really is flowing by…"Naruto chapter 253, page 19