Title: Ehō Norimaki
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Ehō_Norimaki
-----------------------

is an Academy student of Konohagakure.

 Personality 
Ehō is an eager boy. He is deeply committed to becoming a shinobi, and extends his admiration to those who are similarly committed. As a consequence, he is critical of those who show hesitation and indecisiveness. His confident personality allows him to have more withdrawn peers follow him. He enjoys playing Extreme: Shinobi Picture Scrolls. While afraid of horror stories, he was one of the few students not to abandon the investigation on the Seven Mysteries of the Academy until the end, though he did faint at one point. Outside of horror situations, he is very brave, taking initiative investigating a terrorist threat made during the Academy festival.

 Appearance 
Ehō has black hair that is swept to the right side and brown eyes. He wears a green jacket with a grey stripe near the zipper, a black scarf, and grey pants. His shinobi sandals are brown and open toed. 

 Abilities 
Despite not yet being a shinobi, Ehō trains diligently with his grandfather. During a trial day at the Academy, Ehō had no issue completing any of the physical tasks, only having trouble with the Tree Climbing Practice.

 New Era 

Ehō took part of a one-day trial at the Academy. He was enthusiastic upon learning the Hokage's daughter would also participate, to the point of wanting to be her rival when they both did well in physical tasks. However, upon learning Himawari wasn't yet sure she wanted to be a shinobi, it vexed him, causing him to act dismissive towards her.

When the group took part in a mission to find a lost cat, he criticised Himawari's indecision, and accidentally knocked over a hornet hive in his frustration. He stopped Himawari from using a flare to signal abandoning the mission, and left with Yuina. Ehō and Yuina managed to find the cat, but ended up trapped in a well. He wanted to use his flare, but Himawari jumped down and convinced him not to, and the three were able to climb out on their own. He apologised for his behaviour, and insisted Himawari hit him in return. Following their trial classes together, the three continued being friends and practising their shinobi skills together.

 Chūnin Re-Examination Arc 

On the day of the finals for the Chūnin Exams, while practising with Yuina and Himawari, Ehō noticed a group of suspicious men in an alley. Ehō and Yuina followed them to the train station, while Himawari brought Boruto and Mitsuki to help. They witnessed the men kidnap Amado and the genin gave chase, leaving Ehō in awe of their skills.

 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

Upon finally entering the Academy, Ehō was happy to be in the same class as Himawari and Yuina. During class introductions, he was annoyed by all the cocky students trying to stand out. He was also surprised to see the much older Kawaki attending class. The biggest surprise was learning about Kae Yukiwari, the foreign exchange student from the Land of Bamboo, being a princess.

When Team 7 taught his class in the Academy, they had the class take part in an exercise to simulate fighting on an empty stomach. When he discovered Mimi Inuzuka eating a candy bar, over being ok with little food and not wishing to take it from others, Ehō took her bar, and her dog bit him. He got into a conflict with Soul over it, adamant that Mimi's choice was against the purpose of the exercise. Most of the class split between those agreeing with Ehō and those agreeing with Soul, and they boycotted class the next day, unwilling to study together. Their homeroom teacher Hana talked to Ehō over ramen that night. The following day, her efforts to mending the rift between the students paid off, and they made up, taking part in a picnic and cherry blossom viewing party.

When Sōsha was talking to her class-mates about the Seven Mysteries of the Academy, Ehō was scared by it. He was part of a group who investigated the mysteries at night, and remained with the group until the very end, when he fainted. His testimony of confusing Shino covered in glowing paint with a ghost in the faculty room cemented the story as the seventh mystery. During a practical lesson, he was placed in a team led by Osuka alongside Kura.

Later, Ehō took part of a school play about the Sannin. He was originally cast as Manda, but later swapped roles with Eiki to play Jiraiya, at his request. During a rehearsal, Eiki going off script to try exposing Kawaki as an actual shinobi resulted in much of the set being damaged, after which Ehō joined in the efforts to repair it.

The day of the festival, Ehō was back in his role as Manda. When Hana felt ill from overwork, he suggested her to rest in the infirmary. When the festival received a terrorist threat, he and Eiki decided to help investigating it, and discovered a hidden circuit of explosive tags behind a building. While Eiki tried to disarm it, Ehō rushed back to his classmates to warn them of the danger.

Following the terrorist attack, Ehō joined his class-mates in visiting Hana who was injured during the attack. Later, Ehō was amused by Sōsha's story about Eiki's crush.

Later, following Hana being hospitalised from the terrorist attack, Ehō joined his class in welcoming back their teacher. To make up for the festival being cancelled, Hana arranged for the class to undergo survival training on an uninhabited island, Ehō being particularly excited about it. However, Kikuchiyo was injured and their food supplies vanished, stoking fear about a rumour of killer missing-nin settling on the island. Everyone formed groups to scavenge food, and later to look for Neon's damaged drone. By night, everyone enjoyed their food.

Attracted by an explosion, the class encountered Kawaki and Himawari, who revealed that Hana, actually an assassin, had killed Kae. Himawari pointed out that her actions made more sense if Hana wanted to keep Kae as a hostage. Working together, the students tracked Kae and Hana to a cave. Finding the situation too dangerous for the students, Kawaki revealed himself as a shinobi, and credited them for helping find Kae. Eiki still believed there was something they could do, leading them to the docks, hoping to get word of the situation out. They came across Sai, who came to the island with Team 25 after discovering Hana's Land of Bamboo background. Upon finding Hana defeated, her teacher personality struggled against the assassin one, eventually prevailing with the encouragement of her students and regaining control. As Kae had to return home, the class finally put on the Sannin play, and later saw her off at the train station.

 Trivia 
 Ehō Norimaki is a fanmade original character that won the Boruto: Naruto Next Generations Chapter #26 Borukura original character contest, created by Ryu of Saitama Prefecture. He appeared alongside another winner, Yuina Itomaki.

pt-br:Ehō Norimaki