Title: Eiki Fūma
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Eiki_Fūma
-----------------------

is an Academy student and a member of the Fūma clan in Konohagakure. His father serves as a tokubetsu jōnin and member of the Konoha Military Police Force.

 Personality 

Eiki is a very serious boy, eager to excel in his goals as a ninja. While very proper in his way of talking, taking pride in coming from a famous clan, he can be overconfident in his abilities and ultimately reckless. He has a crush on Kae Yukiwari, gets nervous when interacting with her, and gets jealous of other boys getting closer to her than him. Despite his self-important attitude, he was remorseful when his efforts to expose Kawaki as a shinobi ended up damaging the stage the rest of his class built. He is very brave, taking upon himself to investigate a terrorist threat, and staying behind to limit the potential size of an explosion.

 Appearance 
Eiki is a fair-skinned boy of average height. He has amber eyes and dull grey hair that is buzzed on the bottom and parts to reach his ears on the top. He wears a black, long-sleeved shirt with a grey vest over it that has 3 downward-facing, yellow triangles lined up as one big triangle, and dark blue pants with black ninja sandals. 

 Abilities 
Descending from the Fūma Clan, Eiki is noted to have great talent for ninjutsu. He has shown capable skill with Shurikenjutsu, able to hit the target with multiple kunai thrown at once. He also had adept chakra control, as he was one of the quickest in his class to master the Tree Climbing Practice.

 New Era 
 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

Upon starting at the Academy, Eiki quickly states his goals on becoming a ninja, making a good impression on everyone. When he dropped his handkerchief, Kae returned it to him, and he developed a crush on her. When Kawaki, older than any other student in the class, tried to befriend her, Eiki found him suspicious and was jealous. He attempted to force a spar against Kawaki, but he nonchalantly dodged all of Eiki's attacks. While having his injuries tended to, Eiki overheard the teachers talking about the tools storage room, and sneaked in, taking a summoning scroll. When he found Kawaki talking to Kae in a secluded spot, he attacked Kawaki with the summon, but was knocked unconscious by the summon, with whom he had no contract. Kawaki defeated it, and he and Kae left him there, certain he'd wake up with no lasting damage.

Without proper recollection of what happened, he continued to distrust Kawaki. He attended Kae's tea party, where he continued to voice his suspicion of Kawaki, even more so upon his awkward answers to questions. When Kae served the cake she made, Kawaki rushed to stop her from eating it, knocking tables over, and covering Eiki in cake. He began hurling plates at Kawaki in retaliation until Kae told them both to stop. Eiki later called out Osuka on her overbearing mocking of Kae. When Kawaki and Himawari exposed Osaka as having forced Neon to go along in lacing the cake with mustard as a prank, Kae dropped her composed attitude to reprimand her for it. When she tried to recompose herself, Eiki and the others were pleased with her genuine attitude. The party resumed, with Kawaki bringing everyone taiyaki. Days later, Eiki listened as some of his class-mates reported their experience with investigating the Academy's Seven Mysteries at night, doubting their veracity in an age of Scientific Ninja Tools. Later, Eiki was put on a practice team with Neon and Suzu Sōgi to prepare the class for eventually team-ups. While dismayed that he couldn't be teamed with Kae, he was eager to show-off his skills during a series of competitions. Likewise, he built up a rivalry with Osuka. During the first competition, he quickly led his team to gather the most flags in a Tree Climbing Practice relay race.

When his class put on a play about the Sannin, Eiki was cast as Jiraiya, and to better understand him, he secretly read a book of the Icha Icha series. However, Sōsha discovered it and ran a story about it on the school paper, embarrassing him. Eiki received an anonymous note claiming Kawaki was an actual shinobi, with a secret that would get him expelled. Eiki confirmed it when he saw Kawaki's real forehead protector, and approached Sōsha to write a story on it. She wanted proof before running it, so he switched roles with Ehō, who was playing Manda. During a rehearsal, Eiki tackled Kawaki, who was playing Katsuyu, to grab his forehead protector. During the struggle, Osuka, who had overheard him and Sōsha, switched it for a prop one, causing Sōsha to accuse him of wanting her to publish a fake story. With much of the stage destroyed, Eiki felt bad about ruining things for everyone, and help repair it. Later, Eiki apologised again in private, and showed Kawaki the note he received, now believing it to have been a bad-taste prank.

The day of the festival, Eiki resumed his role of Jiraiya in the play, and vowed to make up for his previous behaviour. When the festival suffered a terrorist threat, Eiki and Ehō decided to help investigating, and discovered a hidden circuit with several explosive tags behind a building. Eiki stayed behind to disarm as much as he could, while Ehō went back to warn their classmates. Kawaki arrived in time to remove the largest explosive tag, which had already began burning, and used a shadow clone to take it as high as he could, where it exploded without hurting anyone. After the attack, Eiki was questioned by Kōtarō about it. As he was no longer part of the investigation, Himawari convinced Kawaki to ask Eiki for intel, under the guise of looking for who attacked the festival instead of revealing that Kae had been the target. They determined where the assassin might have been, and asked Sōsha to check on her photos. Eiki had to claim he was looking for a crush instead of revealing their investigation. Kawaki and Himawari left Eiki after spotting Batora in a photo, despite his claim he wouldn't be able to attend. The next day, Eiki asked them where they went, and was embarrassed when Sōsha published a story about his alleged crush, attributing his attitude to having read the Icha Icha book.

Later, following Hana being hospitalised from the terrorist attack, Eiki joined his class in welcoming back their teacher. To make up for the festival being cancelled, Hana arranged for the class to undergo survival training on an uninhabited island. However, Kikuchiyo was injured and their food supplies vanished, stoking fear about a rumour of killer missing-nin settling on the island. Everyone formed groups to scavenge food, and later to look for Neon's damaged drone. By night, everyone enjoyed their food. Attracted by an explosion, the class encountered Kawaki and Himawari, who revealed that Hana, actually an assassin, had killed Kae. Himawari pointed out that her actions made more sense if Hana wanted to keep Kae as a hostage. Working together, the students tracked Kae and Hana to a cave, Eiki using a rope provided by Kura to help everyone cross the destroyed bridge. Finding the situation too dangerous for the students, Kawaki revealed himself as a shinobi, and credited them for helping find Kae. Eiki still believed there was something they could do, leading them to the docks, hoping to get word of the situation out. They came across Sai, who came to the island with Team 25 after discovering Hana's Land of Bamboo background. Upon finding Hana defeated, her teacher personality struggled against the assassin one, eventually prevailing with the encouragement of her students and regaining control. As Kae had to return home, the class finally put on the Sannin play, and later saw her off at the train station. Eiki bashfully promised Kae he would become a great shinobi and meet her in the Land of Bamboo some day.

 Trivia 
 Depending on how it's written, Eiki's name can have the following meanings:
 As 英気, it can mean "great wisdom", "excellent disposition", "strength (to face something)".
 As 盈虧, it refers to the phases of the moon, waxing and waning.
 As 鋭気, it can mean "courage" and "high spirits".