Title: Ensui Nara
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Ensui_Nara
-----------------------

is a shinobi from Konohagakure's Nara clan.

 Appearance 
Ensui has black hair which he ties into a short, high-top ponytail. He also has a goatee and dark-green markings underneath his eyesNaruto: Shippūden episode 284 — which gives him a somewhat lazy, or tired appearance. Attire-wise, he wears the standard outfit of the Konoha shinobi consisting of the standard flak jacket and uniform. He, however, doesn't wear the Alliance's forehead protector.

 Abilities 
Ensui is very skilled with his clan's secret techniques, able to use the Shadow Imitation Shadow Bind Technique to attach their shadow to a target to extend its range and catch its actual target. Unlike the original technique, Ensui can freely manipulate the degree of control he has and choose to make his target imitate his movements. He is also capable of using the Shadow Sewing Technique.

 Part II 
 Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation 

Ensui was assigned to the Third Division of the Allied Shinobi Forces. His team-mate along with Santa Yamanaka were incorporated into Kakashi's battle strategy to take out a reincarnated Zabuza Momochi in order to lift the mist that obscured the battlefield. He used his Shadow Imitation Technique to merge his own shadow with Kakashi's while Santa took possession of their captain's body. He was supposed to then use Kakashi's shadow as an extension of the technique to stop Zabuza's movements and then hold him down once Kakashi's shadow had come into contact with Zabuza's in order for Maki to completely immobilise him. However, half way through the plan, Kakashi's attack was intercepted by Haku. After Zabuza cuts through Haku, Ensui told Santa that Kakashi only caught one enemy and immobilised Haku as he regenerated. When Kakashi successfully connected his shadow to Zabuza's, he immediately immobilised him as well.

In the anime, at the dawn of the second day of the war, Ensui assists Kakashi in restraining a bisected Jinin Akebino until Sai completed his sealing technique. Gari arrives to prevent Jinin's sealing and Rock Lee fights him off to defend the two. Debris from Gari's explosion injures Ensui and his hold on Jinin is released. After Sai successfully seals Jinin, Gari retreats and as Lee attempts to pursue, Ensui convinces him not to.

 Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax 

After the entire Allied Shinobi Forces arrived to the main battlefield against the Ten-Tails, Ensui received some of Kurama's chakra from Naruto, and together with Shikamaru and some of his other clansmen, immobilised the Ten-Tails. Like the rest of the world, he was  trapped in the Infinite Tsukuyomi, until it was dispelled by Naruto and Sasuke.

 Trivia 
 Ensui's name, when written with different kanji, has different meanings:
 when written as 円錐, it means "cone".
 when written as 塩水, it means "salt water".