Title: Enzo Tenrō
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Enzo_Tenrō
-----------------------

is the leader of Yumegakure and the father of Ryuka Tenrō. 

 Personality 
As village leader, Enzo was dedicated to the prosperity of Yumegakure and its inhabitants. He was thus justifiably outraged at Konohagakure's apparent treachery and vowed revenge. To this end, he had to consider the worst-case scenario, the release of the Three-Heads, despite him not wanting to attack another country and kill innocents. In his role as chief, Enzo proved to be a charismatic leader for the shinobi of his village and fought alongside them in combat. 

Enzo considered himself great friends with Gensui Amagiri despite their clans' differences, which he disregarded as ancient history. This naive streak made him easy to manipulate by Gensui.

 Appearance 
Enzo was a large and bulky man with grey spiky hair. His attire consisted of a grey sleeveless kimono shirt with a collar lining of dark blue fur. His forehead protector was shaped like a face guard, furthering the visual similarities to the Second Hokage. He wore a red scarf around his neck with round stone ornament attached. he also wore brown pants with leg warmers in matching fur. 

 Abilities 
Taking advantage of his size and power, Enzo's fighting style revolved around taijutsu, which he used in an even more offensive way combined with his staff.
He is also very strong, being able to shatter rocks with his staff. He was able to use the ultimate technique of his clan: Tenrō-Style Ninjutsu: Beast-Human Transformation Technique. In this transformed state, he would use same techniques as Ryuka, but his variation was more powerful and notably faster.

According to Hinata, he had no weak spot. Kakashi noted that only way to defeat him was to stay back and observe his movements.

Given his possession of the key to the seal holding the Three-Heads, it is safe to assume that he at least had basic knowledge of fūinjutsu.

 Quotes 
 (To Naruto) "I am Enzo Tenrō, as chief of Yumegakure, I'll have you answer for the crime of attacking the village and wounding so many of its citizens!"
 "All right, proud ninja of Yumegakure. Now is the time to combine our strength and fight for the prestige of the village!"
 (To Naruto) "Can you hear them? Those are the screams of the people you've killed. This is a fight to avenge my fallen ally, Gensui!"