Title: First Animal Path (character)
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/First_Animal_Path_(character)
-----------------------

He was a shinobi of the Fūma Clan.

 Background 
On the verge of the Second Shinobi World War, he destroyed a peaceful village due to a tip that a shinobi had infiltrated it. When Jiraiya discovered the village, the Fūma member attacked him with his shurikenjutsu, leading to them fighting and him receiving a slash across his forehead. Years later, his corpse was converted into the Animal Path by Nagato.

 Appearance 

The ninja's hair was a light green colour when he was alive, tied back in a long ponytail with a fringe hanging down from the right side of his head. He received a scar on his forehead during an encounter with Jiraiya, which was usually obstructed by the Animal Path's forehead protector.

Like other corpses, the Animal Path's hair was dyed orange. It had a large bridge piercing through its upper nose which was attached on each cheek with a circular stud, one stud on its upper nose, six studs around the bottom of its face, and one stud on each ear. It does not have eyebrows. While being examined by Konoha, the body was shown to have multiple piercings on its chest and legs as well. As a mark of Nagato's control, the Rinnegan appeared in its eyes.

 Abilities 
Though not much about his abilities are known, he was capable of singlehandedly wiping out a peaceful village. As a member of the Fūma clan, he was skilled in the usage of giant shuriken.

 Legacy 
As part of the Six Paths of Pain, the Animal Path is used for a number of different purposes over the years: all six Paths are used to overthrow and kill Hanzō; when Jiraiya infiltrates Amegakure in order to find out more about Akatsuki, the Animal Path fights him but is ultimately captured and sent to Konohagakure for study. During Pain's Assault, the Preta Path locates the captured Path and destroys its black receivers.

 In Other Media 
 Video Games 

 Trivia 
 In the anime, this ninja is possibly the basis of the antagonist from Jiraiya's Tale of the Utterly Gutsy Shinobi, with his fight with Jiraiya almost completely identical with the fight depicted in the novel.Naruto: Shippūden episode 127