Title: Former Leader of Nadeshiko Village
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Former_Leader_of_Nadeshiko_Village
-----------------------

She was the former leader of the Nadeshiko Village and Shizuka's mentor.

 Background 
One night, decades ago, she encountered Jiraiya who had entered her village to do "research" for his next novel. After he escaped, she pursued him and challenged him to a duel for his hand in marriage. As the match dragged on into the next day, Jiraiya called for the match to be postponed, as neither party was making headway against the other, to which the village leader grudgingly agreed. Jiraiya promised that their students instead should one day seek each other out and fight if the two never met again. This promise fell to her student Shizuka and Jiraiya's last pupil Naruto Uzumaki.

 Personality 
In her youth, she was a driven and somewhat confrontational individual, tracking Jiraiya for a great distance in order to fight him. While being bound by her village's traditions, she was also a kind and empathic individual with her being capable of understanding Jiraiya's feelings for Tsunade. She also showed a diplomatic streak, when she accepted that her and Jiraiya's battle was postponed and would possibly be taken up by their respective students, should they not be capable. In her old age, she had become quite loving and caring, offering words of wisdom to her student in regards to her love life and supporting her when Sagiri was killed.

 Appearance 

She had green eyes and brown, light brown chin-length hair that covered her ears and framed her face. In her youth, she was a fairly tall woman of a curvaceous build. She wore a red pink form-fitting outfit with only a long-sleeve on her left side and an orange sash. In her old age, her hair had greyed and she wore a yellow, loose fitting kimono.

 Abilities 
Little is known about her abilities, but in her youth, she was undoubtedly a powerful combatant, proven from how she was able to fight against Jiraiya in his prime for an entire day, a battle that ended in a stalemate. She was also an expert tracker, able to track Jiraiya quite some distance away from her village, something the Sannin praised her for. She was presumably skilled in kenjutsu as it appeared to be her preferred style of combat.

 Trivia 
 Although she does not appear directly in the games, she is mentioned in Shizuka's profile in Naruto Mobile.