Title: Fubuki Kakuyoku
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Fubuki_Kakuyoku
-----------------------

was a kunoichi from Yukigakure and a member of Dotō Kazahana's group, Dotō's Three-Man-Team alongside Nadare Rōga and Mizore Fuyukuma.

 Background 
Ten years prior to the movie plot, Fubuki participated in overthrowing the daimyō of the Land of Snow, Sōsetsu Kazahana, on the orders of Dotō Kazahana. 

 Personality 
Fubiki was a proud and confident individual bordering on arrogant, near constantly smirking even while in combat, and reminding her opponent not to underestimate the Yuki shinobi.

 Appearance 
Fubuki was a curvaceous woman with green eyes and lilac spiky hair that stuck out of two holes at the top of her grey helmet, reminiscent of pigtails. She has small circular dark pink eyebrows. Much like her teammates, she wore Chakra Armour.

 Abilities 
Fubuki, like the rest of her team, used Ice Release, though this version wasn't a kekkei genkai as they had to use pre-existing ice for their techniques. Fubuki used Ice Release to pull pillars of ice out of the ground to imprison her opponents or defend against attacks. She could also create flying ice needles that she can remotely control. She wore Chakra Armour, which protected her from ninjutsu and genjutsu, as well as amplified her own chakra. Hers, in particular, had built in wings that allowed her to glide around at high speeds.

 Plot Overview 

As the new movie stared by Koyuki Kazahana was being filmed in Yukigakure, Fubuki and the rest of her team ambushed the filming squad. Team 7 began their mission, and fought against the Yuki shinobi. Fubuki took on Sasuke Uchiha, and was able to counter his Fire Release with Ice Release. Kakashi Hatake's clash with Nadare Rōga gave the filming squad and the Konoha shinobi the chance to retreat. 

Fubuki, Nadare, and Mizore Fuyukuma were later sent to finish off the Konoha shinobi by Dotō Kazahana. Fubuki once again fought Sasuke and was ultimately defeated, as she was sent plummeting towards Mizore. This caused their Chakra Armours to explode, killing her.

 In Other Media 
 Video Games 

 Trivia 
  means "snowstorm".  means "crane wing".
 Fubuki appeared in the Japanese version of Naruto: Ultimate Ninja 2 as a support only character.