Title: Fugi
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Fugi
-----------------------

was a shinobi from Sunagakure.

 Background 
Some time before the Chūnin Exams, Fugi had a meeting with Hōichi, discussing their plan to seal Shukaku in a tea kettle, with Gaara being the necessary sacrifice for the cause. He was impressed after hearing that the boy had studied Bunpuku's power to mould currents.

 Appearance 
Fugi had long, dark hair tied in a lower ponytail and dark purple-coloured eyes, along with pointed ears. He also had four tear-troughs on his face. Fugi's attire consisted of a grey tangzhuang with a buttoned-up collar and yellow markings at the hem and the sleeves, red pants, and black shoes.

 Abilities 
Using pre-existing sand, Fugi was capable of creating a barrier that allowed him to overwrite other active barriers, like the Sensing Barrier, in the surrounding area, creating a sandstorm in the process, which surrounds opponents and limits their sense of vision. He was carrying a tantō, implying skills in kenjutsu.

 Interlude 
 In Naruto's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths 

After the completion of the first phase of the Chūnin Exams, Fugi was present alongside Gaara, who orders preparations to be made for the second phase set in the Demon Desert.Naruto: Shippūden episode 397 In the Demon Desert, Fugi attempted to overwrite the Sensing Barrier, creating a gigantic sandstorm in the process. He then recalled his meeting with Hōichi before the Chūnin Exams and their plan to seal Shukaku in a tea kettle, with the Kazekage's life being the necessary cost.Naruto: Shippūden episode 410

Later, while waiting for Hōichi to return, Gaara located Fugi and communicated with him via sand clone, making the older Suna-nin realise that Hōichi was defeated. While feigning continued loyalty to Gaara, the Kazekage told Fugi that after encountering his first friend, Gaara had been hoping to achieve redemption and to show his village he is a changed person. Gaara, well-aware of Fugi's part in the recent attempt on his life, told Fugi if he does not believe him, he was more than welcome to take the younger ninja's head. Realising that Gaara's words were sincere, Fugi, ashamed of his actions against the changed jinchūriki, committed seppuku to atone.Naruto: Shippūden episode 413

 Trivia 
  literally means "unrighteousness".
When written as 不義, "Fugi" also means "murdering one's teacher or a government official", alluding to his attempts on Gaara's life.