Title: Fugō
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Fugō
-----------------------

is a businessman.

 Background 
Fugō's company was being threatened by an organisation, and was on the verge of bankruptcy when his wife and child were kidnapped. Unable to pay their ransom, Fugō felt his only option was to threaten the kidnappers with a chemical weapon.

 Personality 
Fugō is a very nervous man, easily panicking at struggles. So desperate to live, he had no problem letting other people die for his own survival. He tried to exchange his luxury watch for an old woman's water while in captivity, angry when she wouldn't agree to it. He loved his family very much, willing to try threatening their kidnappers.

 Appearance 
Fugō is an average height man of fair complexion. He had a narrow face with short, curly black hair. He dressed in a black business suit with a blue bowtie.

 New Era 
 Labyrinth Game Arc 

Fugō is among a group of Thunder Train passengers taken to Ōga's labyrinth in order for him to run his survival experiments. During the first experiment, Batta voices her opinion that she finds it unlikely that he'll survive on his own, and gets him to hire her for protection, being one of 14 captives to survive the first, collapsing platforms experiment.

While waiting for the second experiment to begin, he failed to convince an old woman to give him her water in exchange for his luxury watch. When the experiment began, Ōga explained how their lives were tied to their candles, and rules about holding them. Fugō went ahead with Batta and Rokuro. While going through a water-filled section, Fugō refused to let Batta hold his briefcase, even if meant he could more securely hold the lantern with his candle. Near the end, they had to wait so all the spots on an elevator could be filled. Two civilians from the larger group did when they arrived. During the slow ascent, they realised that their candles wouldn't last, and when Rokuro claimed a girl's candle for himself, he ordered Batta to get the other civilians' for them. The three waited, and after the other group arrived, having suffered no deaths over creating a long, communal candle, Ōga declared the second experiment over.

Before the next experiments, the group discussed their dreams, Fugō wishing to deliver a payment to save his company. When the experiment began, the room they were in had a ceiling that would come down on them with spikes. Using switches on the walls, a few alcoves appear on the walls, so Fugō overtook Shamo to claim one for safety. He urged Batta to kill Yatsume to take her place, making her reveal that her displaced background. Led by Boruto, others were able to discover a weak spot on the floor and create extra room, so none of them died. Back in the waiting room, Fugō checked on his briefcase, which only had a photo of his family and a canteen.

For the next experiment, everyone picked a card with numbers 1 to 8 in it, having to make it to a gate within two hours, getting enough cards to sum 7. His was the 2 card, and he was quickly joined by Batta, who had 3. He found it suspicious that she would still help him, given her hatred of the wealthy. When he tripped, she picked his briefcase, and found it suspiciously light. They fought over it, and it opened, forcing him to come clean about his situation. Turning on him, she took his card. He begged her for help, and as he did, he was killed, stabbed from behind.

However, the real Fugō remained alive and in suspended animation, alongside those killed in Ōga's genjutsu. When Boruto refused to give up on Yatsume, who was the real Ōga, she woke up from the genjutsu on her own and freed everyone. Batta reached out to him, and decided to give him a discount, as his family was struggling.

 Trivia 
 Written as "富豪", "fugō" means "rich person".
 "Fugō" could also be a shortening of either of the following:
 "fugōkaku" (不合格), meaning "(examination) failure", "rejection", "disqualification".
 "fugōri" (不合理), meaning "unreasonable", "irrational", "absurd", "inconsistent".