Title: Funato Soldier Leader
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Funato_Soldier_Leader
-----------------------

He is the leader of a group of Funato Clan soldiers operating on Dotō Island.

 Personality 
He aspires to rise through the ranks of the Funato Clan, namely a leadership position in the . He is willing to reward good service, promising a gold nugget his subordinates if they were successfully carried out his orders. During his operation, he was against needlessly killing hostages, but considered it they were no longer useful. Aware of how strict Tenma Funato was, he feared reporting any failure to him, and similarly looked forward to reporting any success.

 Appearance 
He is an adult male of average height, with olive skin and short dark hair. He has a short forked moustache and narrow irregular sideburns. He is dressed in the standard uniform of the clan members, consisting of a vest and armlets. Like many others, he displayed a traditional Funato tattoo on his head.

 Abilities 

He commanded a large number of men in the Funato clan. Despite accurately predicting how his opponents would act, he was lulled into lowering his guard when Sarada and Mitsuki pretended to surrender, allowing her to trick him with genjutsu and knock him out. He was a capable Water Release user, creating tendrils to hold people in place and attack, as well as sending signals high in the air to his men.

 New Era 
 Great Sea Battle of Kirigakure Arc 

During a Funato Clan operation on Dotō Island, he lead soldiers responsible for stealing recently discovered gold, using hostages to mine it. When one the hostages revealed that Konoha citizens were among the hostages in addition to escaped shinobi, he prepared to capture them, anticipating they'd try rescuing the hostages, promising a gold nugget to whichever soldier captured them. He and his forces ambushed Sarada and Mitsuki, who had rescued the hostages, but Sarada deceived him with genjutsu and knocked him out. Upon regaining consciousness, he signalled the bulk of his forces to attack the hostages, who had fled to a Funato ship. Despite attempting to board the ship, they were unable to prevent them from escaping.

pt-br:Líder dos Soldados Funato