Title: Fundaru
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Fundaru
-----------------------

is a messenger for the Land of Redaku's Prime Minister.

 Appearance 
Fundaru has brown hair and dark blueish eyes. He carries a cane, the head of which is an intricate sculpture of a hawk, officially symbolising his status as the Prime Minister's envoy.

 New Era 
 Sasuke Retsuden Arc 

The Prime Minister sends Fundaru to the Astronomy Research Institute to meet with Zansūru and inquire about "progress"; Fundaru is given no additional information about what the "progress" pertains to. When he arrives at the Institute's front gates, he expects to be greeted by several intimidating guards who would then escort him to Zansūru. Instead, he is met by Sakura Haruno, who claims that Zansūru is very busy and would like to dispense with the formalities so that the meeting can be finished quickly. Fundaru agrees and is invited inside. 

While leading Fundaru to Zansūru, Sakura asks what the Prime Minister's message is; though surprised by just how informal this has become, he complies. Sakura asks what "progress" he means, to which Fundaru responds that she may not have authorisation to know more. Sakura changes the subject by asking about his previous contacts with Zansūru, prompting Fundaru to ramble at length about his and his wife's prior encounters with Zansūru in Redaku's capital city. Sakura and Fundaru eventually arrive in an out-of-the-way observatory where Sasuke Uchiha is waiting for them. Fundaru turns to Sakura for an explanation and he is promptly knocked out.

Sakura transforms into Fundaru, and Sasuke transforms into his cane. They then meet with Zansūru in his place in order to gather intel about what's going on in the Astronomy Research Institute. After the meeting finishes, they relay the meeting to Fundaru via genjutsu so that he will not realise what happened to him, enabling him to return to the capital to give the Prime Minister the "progress" update from Zansūru.

pt-br:Fandal