Title: Furie Kanhen
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Furie_Kanhen
-----------------------

is a former director of the Cultural Institute.

 Personality 
Kanhen is a very selfish person who allowed Chihare Amano to create a device from liquid chakra only to completely monopolise the energy market with it, after he would have destroyed the shinobi of every country by using Polar particles, and using the shinobi of the Land of Stairs to copy their natural gas with liquid chakra. From the perspective of Naruto Uzumaki, this was an unforgivable plan. Due to the fact that he is in charge of a large international organisation, Kanhen is calm about important people like the Hokage.

 Appearance 
Kanhen is described as a man with pale lips and wearing a jacket.

 Abilities 
Kanhen is a brilliant scientist capable of heading the Cultural Institute with its large number of workers. He was able to develop the Photon Gun, which is a very deadly weapon, and also integrate it into his entire army of drones, which he dispatched to attack Chihare Amano and Naruto Uzumaki. Kanhen also invented a trap with copper makibishi flying inside a magnetic field that would cut anyone caught inside the trap's perimeter. However, he is completely incapable of fighting on his own, and easily loses his battle with Naruto and Orochimaru.

 New Era 
 Naruto Retsuden: Naruto Uzumaki and the Spiral Destiny 
At some point in time, before Naruto Uzumaki visited the Land of Stairs, Kanhen hired Yanaru Aze to kill the latter by equipping him with a photon weapon. However, his plan failed and Yanaru was caught and then committed suicide.

Some time later, Kanhen made a new attempt to kill the Seventh Hokage, sending an army of drones enhanced with photon weapons to destroy him. Naruto, as well as Chihara Amano, who was with him, manage to destroy all the drones and escape, with Yamato helping them.

Naruto suspects Kanhen, but still gives him for study the Polar particles that Sasuke and Sakura Uchiha obtained in Land of Redaku. It is later revealed that Kanhen is going to use a prototype of a liquid chakra device developed by Chihare to disperse Polar particles over the Konohagakure, destroying the shinobi of the village - if they touch them, it can cause many serious problems due to the expansion of the chakra pathway system. He gives instructions to kidnap Chihare after she finishes developing her liquid chakra device, and when the Seventh Hokage and Orochimaru come to rescue the scientist, Kanhen confronts them with the help of drones, of which there are at least a hundred. Orochimaru is left to destroy them, and Naruto goes directly against Kanhen. The Hokage demands that he stop pretending that he is innocent, and Kanhen obediently turns off the drones. While Naruto is distracted by Chihare's device connected to a special machine, Kanhen shoots him with the Photon Gun. The Hokage dodges, but the beam from the pistol destroys the machine with Chihare's device, and at the same time Orochimaru's snake bites Kanhen in the neck, knocking him out. Orochimaru wants to kill the director, but Naruto prevents him from doing this, fighting with the Sannin. During the battle, Orochimaru manages to take the Photon Gun and shoots Kanhen, who begins to die. Naruto throws the gun to Chihare, from which she shoots at the ceiling, the destruction of which leads to the destruction of the Polar particles. Kanhen survives and is subsequently arrested.