Title: Gandō
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Gandō
-----------------------

was a member of the Shirogane clan, who appeared in Naruto: Uzumaki Chronicles 2.

 Personality 
Gandō wanted his clan to be completely revived and he would gladly kill himself if it meant getting closer to his goal.

 Appearance 
Gandō was the tall and muscular man with black braided hair tied up into a ponytail. He had red marks on the eyes. As with the rest of the Shirogane Three, he wore a purple onmyoji–like outfit that has the Shirogane clan symbol at the front, holding it together was a dark red sash wrapped up around his onmyōji–like outfit, two scrolls carried on his lower back, one red at the bottom and one blue at the top, and covering his thighs and wore fade purple pants tucked inside bandages on his lower legs with shinobi sandals and even a dark blue tassel attached to his left forearm.

 Abilities 
Gandō, like other members of his clan, was proficient in the use of puppets.

 Plot Overview 
In the beginning, his puppet appeared in a silhouette along with Ibushi and Menō. Later, it encountered Naruto, Sakura, and Kakashi in the Kisaragi Village, only realised that spirit orb wasn't here and disappeared.

He first appeared with the other Shirogane Three after Menō failed to kill Naruto, Lee, and Sakura in the bandit hideout. He then appeared when Konohagakure gave them the Spirit Orb, only it was a trap. However, Gandō had a barrier set up to prevent Kakashi and Might Guy from attacking and had one of Menō's puppets take the Spirit Orb. Gandō then used his puppets to kill Naruto until Kakashi and Guy broke the barrier and a battle began. After his puppet's were destroyed, he was killed by Naruto's Rasengan. Before he died, he revealed he was bait for the puppets to escape with the Spirit Orb and said the Shirogane clan will be revived after the Master Puppet is revived before dying.

 Trivia 
 Depending on kanji used,  might mean "Buddhist altar light" (龕灯), "stubborn child" (頑童) or "niche light" (龕燈).

pt-br:Gandou