Title: Ganno
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Ganno
-----------------------

is a citizen of the Land of Redaku. He is imprisoned at the Astronomy Research Institute.

 Background 
Like his father before him, Ganno was a painter active in Redaku's capital city. Painting became an obsession for him over the years, to the point that he was never without a paintbrush and took little interest in activities outside of painting. Despite these eccentricities, Ganno was evidently quite popular, as he was often hired to paint portraits of nobles living in the capital. But when it was discovered that he was using these portraits to pit rival nobles against each other, he was arrested, convicted of state treason, and sentenced to seventeen years in prison.

Despite his imprisonment at the Astronomy Research Institute, Ganno did not give up his love for painting: a month prior to the events of Sasuke Retsuden, Ganno was able to collect a number of reddish-brown stones from the quarry that he and the other prisoners were excavating. He spent the next several nights carefully crushing the stones into a fine powder, which he then boiled along with skin peeled from his own foot. The resulting concoction was a red paint. Using pine needles as brushes, he carefully applied this paint to his fingernails. Because of the nature of his "canvas" and the fact that his tools would inevitably be confiscated by the prison's guards, Ganno's paintings were inherently temporary. Nevertheless, he remained committed to his craft, completing an average of one art project per week.

 Appearance 
Ganno is described as being in his mid-sixties, with crimson hair and thin, sunburnt arms. The red paint that adorns his fingernails makes him easily identifiable to others, even from a distance. In the manga and anime, Ganno has white long hair and fair skin.

 New Era 
 Sasuke Retsuden Arc 

After returning to their cell for the night, Ganno is invited to play Chinchirorin with two of his cellmates, Penjira and Jiji. Ganno declines, being too focused on applying a fresh coat of paint to his fingernails. Jiji insists that Ganno is wasting his time, but Ganno pays him no attention. Penjira is eventually able to convince their other cellmate, Sasuke Uchiha, to play with him. Like Penjira and Jiji, Ganno is shocked when Sasuke manages to "win" on his very first roll.

A few nights later, Jiji starts claiming that he has figured out the patrol schedule of Menō, a reptilian creature responsible for making sure prisoners don't try to escape their cells. Ganno and Penjira are doubtful that Menō's behaviour has any degree of consistency, only to be proven wrong when Menō walks by their cell, as Jiji predicted. Jiji takes one of the branches that Ganno uses for painting and uses it to coax Menō closer to their cell; the branches are taken from a tree that Menō often rests under, suggesting that he likes its smell. Jiji convinces Ganno to try petting Menō, which Ganno reluctantly complies with. Menō does not mind Ganno stroking his forehead, prompting Penjira to also try. But in doing so, Penjira unwittingly slightly leaves the boundaries of their cell, prompting Menō to try attacking him. Penjira is unharmed, but a lantern is knocked over in the scuffle and Ganno busies himself with cleaning up the split oil.

During dinnertime a few days later, Ganno sees the prison's new doctor, Sakura Haruno, sitting alone in the cafeteria. Ganno asks to sit with her and they discuss the sunset visible through the nearby window. Ganno notices Sakura's wedding ring, which he hasn't seen her wearing before, and asks what kind of person her husband is. Sakura speaks candidly about her husband, listing his many good qualities. Even though she is careful to never mention her husband's name, Ganno nevertheless guesses that she's talking about Sasuke, which Sakura does a poor job of denying. Ganno explains that Sasuke has often sat exactly where Sakura is sitting now, staring at a tree in the courtyard outside for reasons that Ganno didn't understand until Sakura arrived at the prison. Sakura doesn't see the connection, prompting Ganno to pay a seemingly unrelated compliment to her unique hair colour before excusing himself. Sakura later realises that the tree resembles a cherry blossom, and that evidently it reminds Sasuke of her.

Later that night, reincarnated dragons emerge throughout the prison and start attacking the prisoners. Ganno tries hiding from the dragons, but a passing feathered-dragon catches his scent and starts pursuing him. Ganno tries to escape, but trips and the dragon makes to crush him under its foot. He is saved by Menō, who is now allied with Sasuke and who begins fighting the feathered-dragon, giving Ganno a chance to escape. Ganno at some point joins up with Penjira, and they both come across Sakura in combat with the same type of feathered-dragon. When Sakura knocks the dragon to the ground, Ganno and Penjira climb onto it, holding it down and repeatedly striking its knees, intent on trying to stop its wounds from regenerating. Other prisoners soon begin following their example, keeping the dragons preoccupied in this way until Sasuke and Sakura are able to have the dragons sent back to the afterlife.

pt-br:Ganno