Title: Gantetsu
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Gantetsu
-----------------------

is a missing-nin and a former member of the Shinobazu. 

 Background 
While he was a member of the group he began to feel guilty for what he was doing. Gantetsu thought he was saving the orphans, but he still knew that losing their parents was something awful and decided to put a stop to the ninja drop-outs. He saved the children from the houses they razed, hiding them in the Forest of Bewilderment. He also stole the treasure they had stolen together, and then he let his comrades to believe that he was captured so that they would  come "rescue" him in order to learn where the treasure is. He hoped that by doing so his former comrades would get caught and that would be the end of the ninja drop-outs. Despite this, he knows that he can never completely atone for his crimes.

Appearance
Gantetsu is a man of great stature. He has black hair he keeps held in a ponytail and a black goatee. He has grey eyes. 

 Abilities 
Gantetsu possesses a great amount of brute strength, able to bend two steel bars with his bare hands. He also has a great sense of orientation, able to find through the Forest of Bewilderment. He appears to carry an immunity to some snake venoms, commenting that he's used to it after being bitten by one.

 Part I 
 Gantetsu Escort Mission 
Gantetsu was captured and was to be taken to a local capital city. On the trip down a river, his comrades, Shura and Monju, attacked a prison ship; while it was initially thought that they had been planning to rescue him, they were looking for him in order to find the money that he had hidden away. Although Todoroki did not trust him, and tried to kill him on more than one occasion, Gantetsu repeatedly helped the group navigate the forest and defeat the Shinobazu members, even saving Todoroki's life. Todoroki agreed to falsely report that he had died in order to allow him to remain with his orphans.

 Trivia 
 Gantetsu (丸鉄) means "round steel".

pt-br:Gantetsu