Title: Garakuta Gang Leader
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Garakuta_Gang_Leader
-----------------------

He is the leader of the Garakuta Gang.

 Appearance 
He is a fairly large man with short dark hair and a beard. There are two scars on his face - one is long on the right side, and the other is small and is located under the left eye. He wears a black turtleneck over which he wears a long-brimmed burgundy tank top, light-coloured pants tied with a lilac belt, and a pair of high-top boots. He has long wristbands on his arms, and a dark travel cloak is draped over his shoulders.

 Personality 
He is a rather rude and arrogant person who, in order to achieve his goal, does not hesitate to attack defenceless people and young genin girls. He is quite greedy and seeks to steal things that can make a lot of money, such as the First Hokage's scroll.

 Abilities 

He has some skills in ninjutsu being able to use the Earth Release to create a swamp that sucks in and immobilizes people.

He has highly developed leadership qualities, as he is able to lead and command a large number of people. The members of the Garakuta Gang obey him unquestioningly and, for the most part, follow orders even if they are afraid. In addition, he is quite smart and guessed that the merchants would deceive him, for which he sent water clones as a decoy, making sure that the leader of the enemy group went after them, and he himself hid in the forest and attacked the almost defenceless merchants.

 New Era 
At some point in time, when Team 15 was on a mission to protect a group of traders, Garakuta Gang Leader sent his people to rob them, but they failed as Namida Suzumeno started crying and knocked out all the Gang members, after which they are arrested.

After some time, Team 15 was again tasked with protecting the merchants who are carrying the extremely valuable scroll of the First Hokage. During the trek through the forest, Garakuta Gang again went out against them, but this time together with the leader. He gave his subordinates the command to attack, and he himself remained to observe the battle. The gang managed to take the goods from the merchants and left, with Hanabi and Nue forced to go after them. The merchants breathed a sigh of relief, since they left the First Hokage's scroll in their cache, but at this time the Garakuta Gang left the forest, and their leader revealed that he foresaw a deception. After Namida defended Sumire, the leader admired this act and uses his technique to suck the girls into the swamp. He took the scroll and left. Namida, however, used her powerful cry to overtake the leader with her sonic attack and knocked him out.