Title: Garuda
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Garuda
-----------------------

is a hawk and the personal summon of Sasuke Uchiha.

 Background 
Sometime after his battle with Itachi Uchiha, Sasuke found and signed a contract with Garuda to replace his lost wings.

 Appearance 

While resembling a normal hawk, he is much larger in terms of size. He was depicted as being brown in colour while having darker areas along his back, wings, and tail. Garuda also has dark markings around his eyes as well as red ones along the sides of his beak.

Personality
Garuda seems to be very loyal to Sasuke.

 Part II 
 Five Kage Summit 

During his fight with Danzō Shimura, Sasuke summoned Garuda to avoid falling off the Samurai Bridge after being injured by Danzō's Wind Release: Vacuum Sphere technique. Sasuke later disembarked from him in order to evade the Wind Release: Vacuum Wave while it flew towards them.Naruto chapter 477, pages 8-12 

In the anime, Garuda further assists Sasuke in his battle by using one of his claws to clutch and direct one of Danzō's wind-enhanced shuriken back at him, severing Danzō's right arm and having him release his grip on Sasuke, thus allowing Sasuke to slash Danzō in the chest; in the manga, it was Sasuke who severed the right arm with his Sword of Kusanagi. After Sasuke killed Danzō, Garuda was seen flying away from the battlefield.

 Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki 

Sasuke summons Garuda when he makes his second assault on Madara Uchiha.

 Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes 

Later in the war, Garuda was summoned again to stop Sasuke and Naruto from falling into lava after Kaguya teleported Team 7 above a river of lava. Kaguya then launched a pinpoint attack, striking Garuda's tenketsu in its wings which effectively disabled his ability to fly. Naruto saves both Garuda and the rest of the team with his chakra arms, afterwards Garuda returned to his dimension.

 Trivia 

 Garuda is a large mystical bird or bird-like creature that appears in both Hindu and Buddhist religions. He is known as the King of the Birds as well as the first bird.
 In the anime, when Garuda débuted, a lot of its design is lost from the manga and the markings on the side of its beak are noticeably missing.
 Since all summoning animals are located in the same dimension as humans, Garuda should've been caught in Infinite Tsukuyomi, as other animals were seen caught in the genjutsu. However, Garuda seemed to have bypassed the genjutsu. It is unknown if it was by chance, if all summoned animals were exempt from the technique, or if Sasuke was able to break the genjutsu when summoning it.