Title: Garō
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Garō
-----------------------

was a man who worked for Kara as an Outer.

 Background 
left|
In the anime, Jigen had chosen Garō as a candidate to be his new vessel. Unlike most who were incompatible and died as a result, Garō survived, but at the cost of his arms. Some time after his arms where replaced, he met Kawaki when the boy attempted to leave the Kara hideout. Garō was surprised to see that he was a successful inheritor of a Kāma and he offered to teach him about the organisation. When he refused, Garō decided to discipline  him. In fear for his life, Kawaki activated his Kāma and blasted Garō.Boruto episode 188 His confrontation with Kawaki left his jaw disfigured, leading to him developing a grudge against the boy.Boruto chapter 24

 Personality 
In the anime, Garō was originally a very upbeat and arrogant man, taking in stride the loss of his arms as a trade for power. He was very loyal to Kara. Despite this, he was very short-temper, noted to be very reckless by Amado.

After his injuries, Garō was an angry man, who expressed hostility towards Kawaki, having developed a grudge against him for blowing away his jaw. Garō also proved to be a proud man, being concerned with the pride of the Outers after Ao's failure. He also had delusions of becoming an Inner despite the various grunt work he was only ever assigned. He had a tendency to carelessly talk about sensitive information, even in front of enemies, which made others consider him an idiot.

However, when realising he was about to be killed, Garō begged for his life, even as far as begging forgiveness and desperately apologising to Kawaki, with the latter refusing, and mocking, his apology and pleas, showing that despite all his pride, Garō was quite cowardly.

 Appearance 

Garō was a tall, overweight man with fair skin, a pronounced brow, and bald with black hair only at the nape of his neck. His face was heavily scared and disfigured, wearing a mask that wrapped around his head to cover his lost jaw with vents similar to a gas mask and likewise covered up his ears. He wore a purple long-sleeved shirt and pants with a white belt that had two tool pouches on each side. He also wore white leg warmers up to his shins and a tattered red shroud. He later also wore brown shin guards. In place of arms, he sported mechanical claws.

In the anime, prior to his injuries, he had a full head of slicked back brown hair and his shroud was untattered.

 Abilities 
Using his Shinobi-Ware, Garō could generate and fire blasts from his make-shift arms. In the anime, Garo was shown to be a fierce hand-to-hand combatant. Taking advantage of his larger frame, he relied on using more wrestling-based tactics like powerful dropkicks, headbutts, suplexes, and elbow drops to inflict savage blows. Despite his large size, he was quite agile, able to evenly match the younger and nimbler Kawaki in speed for sometime. His body was also shown to be very resilient, able to endure most blunt-force trauma unaffected.Boruto episode 189 He also managed to survive Jigen's experiment though he was incompatible with the Kāma, again a testament to his endurance.

 New Era 
 Kawaki Arc 

left|
In the anime, after slaughtering people in a ruined village, Delta invites Garō to recover the vessel near the border of the Land of Fire, much to his joy. Finding him with Team Konohamaru, he taunted Kawaki that he'll return him to Kara, before attacking him and intercepting his weakened attack. After a short fight, the seemingly stronger Garō was overpowered by Kawaki who had activated his Kāma. He pierced Garō with his right arm and then made his upper body explode using the Kāma, killing the Outer.

 Trivia 
 According to character trivia from Boruto: Naruto Next Generations:
 His attributes are: 132 [192] in strength, 64 in negotiation, 96 in chakra, 77 in intelligence, 100 [180] in perception, and 85 [125] in dexterity.
 He was also given a skill rating in these particular areas:
 Wrestling: ★★★★☆
 Intimidation: ★★★☆☆
 Interrogation: ★★☆☆☆
 Shinobi-Ware:
 , , , others.