Title: Gen'yūmaru
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Gen'yūmaru
-----------------------

was a member of a clan imprisoned by Orochimaru, and his third host body. 

 Appearance 
Gen'yūmaru had tousled neck-length green (grey in the anime) hair, a strong chin, and dark purple eyes. He wore black wristbands with thick purple rope wrapped around his chest over a tan shirt, and black trousers.

 Personality 
He was described as a firm, and greatly self-confident individual. He was loyal and caring to his comrades, as when Orochimaru approached him with the intent to take over his body, Gen'yūmaru used the last wish offered to him to set them free.

 Abilities 
While the only fight Gen'yūmaru has been observed in was blurred, the fact that he was chosen as Orochimaru's host speaks highly of his potential abilities. Moreover, he is observed taking his opponent's head off, and sending it flying across the room, despite lacking any weapons.Naruto chapter 199, pages 11 Additionally, even after his body was taken over, Gen'yūmaru's body continued to reject Orochimaru, forcing Orochimaru to attempt to switch bodies sooner.

 Part I 
 Sasuke Recovery Mission 

When Orochimaru's body was damaged beyond repair, Kabuto Yakushi ordered Gen'yūmaru, along with many other prisoners, to fight to the death, under the premise the survivor would have a wish granted. After winning, Orochimaru's entrance to the arena gave Gen'yūmaru a frightening illusion of a giant snake who was about to devour him. Upon discovering his body will be Orochimaru's next vessel; Gen'yūmaru used his wish to request his clan members be set free. Resigned to his fate, Gen'yūmaru's body was taken over.

 Part II 
 Itachi Pursuit Mission 

After three years, Gen'yūmaru's body begins to reject Orochimaru and he attempts to take Sasuke Uchiha's body. When Sasuke attacked a greatly weakened Orochimaru, the latter abandoned Gen'yūmaru's body. 

Gen'yūmaru is later seen in Orochimaru's subconscious along with his other former host bodies' souls.

 In Other Media 
 Movies 
 Naruto Shippūden the Movie: Bonds 
Gen'yūmaru's body is failing Orochimaru, causing him to be bedridden. In the hopes of extending his host's vitality before he could transfer, Orochimaru ordered Sasuke to bring a man named Shinnō to Otogakure, who knows many Regeneration Techniques that may help. In the end, Sasuke failed to bring Shinnō in person, but a scroll that contains the necessary information to extend Gen'yūmaru's lifespan.

 Trivia 
  literally means "confined to an illusion". When written as 原由, it means "reason".
 Guren is suggested to have known Gen'yūmaru, as she is informed that he was selected as the host body when she was too late to receive the same "privilege".
 Gen'yūmaru is seen during Orochimaru's battle with Team Yamato, when Orochimaru's face is struck by Naruto and Orochimaru's face skin is temporarily torn.Naruto chapter 291, page 13