Title: Giant Drill-Beaked Bird
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Giant_Drill-Beaked_Bird
-----------------------

This summon is a large bird which has a number of body piercings and the Rinnegan, implying that it is being controlled by Nagato.

 Appearance 
The bird itself is unusual, as not only does it demonstrate a prominent and jagged  yellow-coloured beak, but it also features three distinct legs as well as wings. It also has one giant chakra receiver sticking through the right side of its back and another one sticking through the left side of its neck.

 Abilities 
This summon can move at an incredibly fast speed, and can use that velocity combined with its beak to form powerful dive attacks slamming its beak into its opponent. In the anime, the bird had additional abilities where it could lay a large quantity of eggs that subsequently explode like bombs, and while flying low over Konoha produced dust clouds strewn with lightning in its wake. It is very agile, being able to fly very gracefully.

 Part II 
 Tale of Jiraiya the Gallant 
It is summoned briefly during Pain's fight with Jiraiya. It is summoned to fight Gamaken. It flew over to a in-air Gamaken and attacked him with its beak, Gamaken blocked the attack with his shield. After this, it was hit by one of Jiraiya's Fire Release techniques and was desummoned.

 Pain's Assault 
He is summoned again to attack Naruto after he uses his perfected Rasenshuriken.

 Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation 
The bird was next summoned by the reincarnated Nagato alongside the Giant Multi-Headed Dog to provide a way for Nagato to move. Itachi soon retreats atop of the bird's head alongside Nagato. Later, after Itachi is freed from Kabuto's control, he used Amaterasu on both Nagato and the giant bird, incapacitating it and its summoner.

 Trivia 
 This summon's three legs make it reminiscent of Yatagarasu, the three-legged crow of Amaterasu, the Shintō goddess of the sun. Ironically, it was defeated by Itachi's Amaterasu technique.
 Adding to this, in Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online, this bird was called the .
 In its first appearance, it was depicted with three legs and two wings. Later, after being summoned by the reincarnated Nagato, it was depicted with four legs and four wings.http://blog.pierrot.jp/archives/4040