Title: Giant Clam
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Giant_Clam
-----------------------

This  was the personal summon of the Second Mizukage.

 Personality 
Unlike other summons, this clam seems to lack its own personality and is completely loyal to its summoner regardless of the intention, even if it means fighting Kirigakure shinobi.

 Appearance 
Aside from its massive size, it resembled an ordinary clam. Several prominent dark lines encircle both the upper and lower portions of its shell, while the Kirigakure symbol is inscribed upon its top.

 Abilities 
The creature is capable of producing a mist with which its summoner can create a deceptive mirage that completely rendered observers unable to accurately locate the position of itself or its summoner, after firstly opening its shell and exuding a mist from its siphonsNaruto chapter 552, page 14 throughout the duration of the technique. Its shell was very sturdy, being able to resist Ōnoki's initial attack. This creature also seems to have an extraordinarily long life span as it was used by Gengetsu when he was alive and survived until the Fourth Shinobi World War.

 Part II 
 Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation 

During the Fourth Shinobi World War, after the Second Mizukage was reincarnated by Kabuto Yakushi to fight for Akatsuki, it was summoned to the battlefield in a confrontation against the shinobi of the Fourth Division. As the clam opened its shell, it envelops the area in a mirage that rendered all the attacks the shinobi dealt ineffective, as they remain unable to locate the actual position of either the creature or the Mizukage. Despite the Mizukage's advice to attack the clam standing directly behind him, their attempts continue to fail, resulting in utter confusion amongst the shinobi.
 

After Gaara and Ōnoki arrived, the real clam was located through Gaara's Concealed Sand Picture Cat technique. Ōnoki initially tried to attack the clam with his Dust Release but is unsuccessful because of his dwindling chakra reserves. The clam is then attacked by Ōnoki's Earth Release: Fist Rock Technique which did little to no damage to it until he uses the Earth Release: Ultra-Added-Weight Rock Technique to destroy it. Due to this, the mirage disappears.

 Influence 
Although the furigana reading of the clam's name is , the kanji is 蜃 (normally pronounced shin or, in Chinese, shèn), which is the name of a mythical creature in Chinese myth. The shèn is described as a giant clam (or other such mollusk) that possesses the ability to shapeshift, and sometimes a kind of aquatic dragon. It is said to be able to create Fata Morgana-like mirages by exhaling a thick gas or "qi" that solidifies in the air to form beautiful, phantom cities, towers, and palaces over the ocean. In fact, its name has become almost synonymous with "mirage" in East Asian languages; in Japanese, the word for "mirage" is .

 Trivia 
 The Second Mizukage's use of genjutsu can be seen as an allusion to the mythical shen creature's ability to create mirages in Chinese legends.
 The giant clam adds to the list of summons who are seemingly allied to a single ninja village given the Kirigakure symbol on its shell.