Title: Gojō
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Gojō
-----------------------

is an inhabitant of the Land of Wind and the father of Isago.

 Background 
During the Fourth Shinobi World War, the shinobi of his own country attacked Gojō's land and burned everything he had in order to find possible enemies in hiding. Since then, Gojō does not like shinobi and moved to a desert area, where he began to live alone with his daughter. At some point, a group of people came to him, wanting to build a power plant on the site of his dwelling and tried to persuade him to give up the land, but Gojō was adamant and opposed them.

 Personality 
Because of his previous experiences, he is curt with outsiders. He believes that people can change if necessary, and having experienced hardship, he wants a better future for his daughter. He perseveres in maintaining his residence and land, despite their inhospitable location. Due to these efforts, he refuses to part with his property, despite understanding that the power plant would benefit many people. He almost transferred ownership when Isago was taken prisoner, but she was saved by Boruto, which also improved his opinion of shinobi.

 Appearance 
Gojō is a tall, masculine man with grey eyes, short brown hair, and a thick beard. He wears a grey tank top with a dark green vest over it, along with dark pants and a pair of sandals. A large bag hangs from his belt, and bandages are wrapped around his ankles and wrists.

 Abilities 
While not a shinobi, Gojō is built and strong, taking up a hoe when in danger, and has crippled someone who tried to take his property. Living in isolation, he maintains his property by himself. He is a skilled carpenter. He suffered only minor injuries when a huge rock fell on him.

 New Era 
 One-Tail Escort Arc 

When his daughter Isago rescued Boruto, he demanded that he leave immediately after recovering. He refused Boruto's help in mending his fence, and explained his past experiences which soured him on shinobi. At night, an alarm went off, and he found his fence broken, and explained to Boruto he was being harassed by people who want his property to build a power plant. The next morning, after Boruto left, Gojō discovered the people harassing him, and they take Isago hostage to force him to transfer the land. Boruto saved them, and in gratitude, Gojō allowed him to take a trolley he build to get the to train station in time.

A while later, Gojō's home was attacked by Urashiki. Boruto and Shinki arrived, hoping to use his transmitter. They helped Isago get Gojō out of the rubble, confirming the identity of his attacker, and revealing his transmitter was destroyed. The shinobi realised that Urashiki set an ambush for them on their way to the Land of Fire, so Gojō showed him a longer way, known to locals, allowing them to send a decoy towards the way Urashiki set his trap. Gojō thanked Boruto for his help before he left.

 Trivia 
 Depending on how it is written, "Gojō" can have several meanings:
 As 五常, it refers to the five cardinal Confucian virtues (justice, politeness, wisdom, fidelity, and benevolence).
 As 五情, it refers to the five passions (anger, joy, hatred, desire, and grief).
 As 互譲, it means "conciliation" or "compromise".