Title: Gongorō Kamakura
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Gongorō_Kamakura
-----------------------

is a retired shinobi, who went on to become a famous actor.

 Personality 
Gongorō takes great pride in his work as an actor. He is famed for his quote of proving with actions rather than words. However, he seems to easily get stressed out, as he began eating too much until the point of gaining weight. His enjoyment for food began to affect his work. However, after heeding Boruto's advice to live by his own quote, Gongorō finally stopped over-eating and began exercising again to get back into shape.

 Appearance 

Gongorō is a tall man of fair complexion with blue eyes and long spiky white hair that is tied in a high ponytail with strands framing both sides of his face. For his role as Kagemasa, he wears a black bodysuit with red form-fitting armour and red black sandals. He also wears sharp triangular shaped orange visors. Normally, Gongorō is a slim and fit man with dashing looks. However, upon eating too much, he became very plump with a pudgy face. Soon after, he returned his normal appearance.

 Abilities 
While a movie star whose fights are normally scripted and choreographed, as a retired yet famous ninja, Gongorō is proven a fearsome fighter in real life. This was made even more impressive by the fact that he was out of shape during his rampage. A fast and nimble fighter, Gongorō proved very evasive and versatile in his combat tactics, making it very hard for Boruto and Sarada to hit him. He is also shown to be rather strong, able to hurl large metal poles at his target with considerable aim through either his hands or kicks, able to easily embed them in solid walls.

 New Era 
 Academy Entrance Arc 

When stress began getting to Gongorō and he started over-eating, his movie career was called into question as talks began about cancelling his movie series. While constantly insisting that he would get the weight off, he continued to fail in his promise. Eventually, Gongorō's anger at the situation drew the attention of the Shadow Spectre, which possessed him. He was later noticed by Boruto Uzumaki, who found it hard to believe that Gongorō was the famed movie star because of his fat appearance. The possessed Gongorō then attacked him ruthlessly. While soon pinning the boy down, Boruto was saved by Sarada Uchiha. Working together, they were able to catch Gongorō off guard, allowing Boruto to knock him out and free him from his possession. After awaking, taking Boruto's advice to live up to his reputation, Gongorō finally got serious in his dieting and exercising, soon returning to his former fit self and saving his career.

 Graduation Exams Arc 

Gongorō appeared on TV, fit once again, to promote the local park's famed Eternal Carp, greatly enjoying eating it.

 Great Sea Battle of Kirigakure Arc 

While filming the next instalment of the Kagemasa franchise, Gongorō hurt his back during a stunt. While the studio wanted Naruto to make a cameo appearance as the Seventh Hokage, he was unable to join over a family vacation, so Konohamaru subbed for him, as he could also perform the Rasengan, which would feature in the climax. When Konohamaru felt the producer was overusing CG, Gongorō was pleased with the opportunity to film on location, though the producer fired almost everyone because of it. The assistant director, who wished to continue filming with his own money was held hostage in a bank. Gongorō saw it on the news and went there in costume, where he and Konohamaru stopped the criminals while the crew filmed them. His back gave out from his injury, and he inspired Konohamaru to deal with an explosive tag with the Rasengan. The movie sponsors enjoyed the footage, so the producer hired everyone back. The movie was ultimately a success.

 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

When Osuka was kidnapped for ransom, her servants were unable to reach Gongorō, who was busy shooting another movie.

 Trivia 
 He may be based on Kamakura Gongorō Kagemasa, a samurai descended from the Taira clan who fought for the Minamoto clan during the Gosannen War, during which he kept fighting even after losing an eye. He was also the protagonist of the kabuki play Shibaraku.
 In the end credit, his portrait's name was written as .
 Gongorō's movies appear to be viewed and loved world-wide, as Kagura Karatachi, a Kiri-nin, was a major fan of Gongorō.
 As the character Kagemasa, he had the ability to transform his eye akin to a dōjutsu, known as the . 

pt-br:Gongorō Kamakura