Title: Gozu
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Gozu
-----------------------

is a shinobi from Otogakure and a member of Team Guren. 

 Background 
At some point in the past, Gozu was dying from thirst and food deprivation. Guren saved his life by giving him a ladle of water. Whilst not enough to sate his thirst, it was enough to keep him alive.

 Personality 
He is unsociable and quiet, making people unable to figure out what he is thinking, but his battle skills are without a doubt very dexterous. He relies on taijutsu and brute strength and prefers fighting alone. He holds a special, fond sentiment towards Guren and was her most loyal subordinate, even stating "I will accompany you no matter where you go".Naruto: Shippūden episode 103 The reason for this was that Guren saved his life while he was imprisoned by Orochimaru, giving him water when he was dying of thirst. He was not very trusting towards the other members of his team.

 Appearance 
Gozu has short slicked combed back brown hair, no eyebrows, and grey-coloured eyes. He also has sharp teeth and long arms reaching down to his knees.

 Abilities 
 Ninjutsu 
 Nature Transformation 

Gozu is able to use the Earth Release nature transformation. With it, he can fire big clumps of mud to slow an enemy down. He can even turn his body into mud, giving him the ability to create makeshift weapons and scatter a volley of small mudshots in all directions. While in this mode, most physical attacks will be ineffective. He can also burrow through the ground at high speeds by turning it into sand with chakra.

 Physical Prowess 
Gozu possesses a considerable amount of raw strength, able to momentarily stop the Three-Tails in its tracks by grabbing one of its tails.Naruto: Shippūden episode 99

Due to his body being altered by Orochimaru, he is able to expand his arms and legs in a manner similar to the Akimichi clan's Partial Multi-Size Technique to augment the said limbs' raw might. Gozu could also condense his form for even greater feats of speed.

 Part II 
 Three-Tails' Appearance 

After the selection battle Kabuto Yakushi and Guren held in the hideout, Gozu became Guren's subordinate. When Guren returned, she ordered him and the rest of his team to dispose of Kakashi Hatake and Team 8. 

As the arguably strongest member, he was sent in first to face off against Kakashi and draw him away. There, he quickly showed off his tremendous might that kept Kakashi on his toes. When Kakashi's cunning and skill proved too much for him, he pulled out his trump card to alter his body even further, giving him even greater speed and strength. In the end, he barely survived his fight against Kakashi, having sustained a broken arm and forced to retreat.

After the force retreat, his arm healed, Gozu watched as Guren fought Team 8. When her crystal barrier was destroyed, he was the first to charge in to Guren's aid. Later when Kabuto came to retrieve Yūkimaru, Gozu joined them and is tasked with rowing the boat. Soon thanks to Guren and Yūkimaru's combined power, he found himself in the presence of the Three-Tails. After Kabuto ordered Guren to restrain the beast, Gozu went to assist her without hesitation, allowing her to momentarily capture it. The Three-Tails then created a huge tidal wave which launched Gozu away from his team. He managed to survive and wash up on shore with Rinji and the others. Immediately, his first thought was to find Guren and rushed off to find her. Later, Gozu fought Sai but was easily bound by his ink technique. 

He senses Guren's chakra, and runs to save her from Kakashi. He is struck by Kakashi's Lightning Cutter and seemingly dies. After Guren sacrifices herself to save Yūkimaru, Gozu is still shown to be alive in mud form at the bottom of the lake. The reason he admires Guren is revealed to be because she was the only one to treat him nicely at Orochimaru's hideout and gave him water when he was dying of thirst. After Gozu and Guren get out of the lake, the two set off along with Yūkimaru.

 Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes 
After the final battle between Naruto and Sasuke, he, Guren and Yūkimaru can be seen in the crowd at the entrance to Konohagakure.

 Trivia 
 "Gozu" literally means "cow head", which coincidentally is modelled after the Japanese deity of the same name, Gozu Tennō.
 Gozu was shown fighting Hinata in the fourth opening, but this never occurred, as he fell to Kakashi before anything happened.
 According to his character sheet, Gozu's hunched state stands at 182 cm.
 Although Gozu does not appear directly in the games, he is mentioned in Guren's profile in Naruto Mobile.
 Gozu's ability to manipulate mud is similar to the Mud Release.