Title: Haguruma
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Haguruma
-----------------------

is a programmer, working for the Kaminarimon Company.

 Background 
Haguruma was a game programmer. After having to deal with an unforgiving schedule to release a game on time, he and his colleagues decided to file a complaint against their boss. The boss somehow discovered it, and faked evidence of Haguruma selling company secrets, which resulted on him being fired, making him an example for his colleagues. No other company would hire him, and his debts pilled up enough for him to rob a bank.

 Personality 

Haguruma is a dedicated worker, who went along with an abusive schedule to deliver on his job, but was also willing to speak about against it despite his shyness. After he was fired, he was determined to kill himself on the day the game he worked on was launched as a protest against the company, and remained so even after explaining his situation to Boruto, only relenting when he learned of Boruto's enjoyment of the previous game he worked on.

 Appearance 
Haguruma has unkempt, neck length black hair and dark green eyes. He wears a grey shirt and green pants, and wears a pair of brown sandals. While working for the game firm, Haguruma wore a suit, which he also began to wear at his new job.

 Abilities 

Haguruma is a skilled game programmer, coding successful games, and later being appreciated by the Kaminarimon Company. He has rudimentary skills in making explosive devices, though they're ineffective and prone to malfunction. Together with Denki, he developed new, portable radio technology with tracking capabilities.

 New Era 
 Genin Mission Arc 

After falling on hard times, Haguruma was manipulated by the Byakuya Gang into barricading himself inside a Konoha bank. The Military Police surrounded the bank, but did not breach it over fears of an explosion. Boruto infiltrated the bank and sympathised with Hagura, learning of his plights. Having vented, Haguruma set off his explosives, but changed his mind after learning that Boruto enjoyed his games. Because the device jammed, he was unable to deactivate it, forcing Boruto to fry it with Lightning Release. Haguruma was taken in custody, and later interrogated, exposing the Byakuya Gang's role in his heist. Boruto had Denki look for a job for Haguruma in the Kaminarimon Company.

 Time Slip Arc 

Haguruma, along with Denki Kaminarimon, took part in tracking down Urashiki Ōtsutsuki, watching on a computer screen for Konohagakure shinobi who set a trap for him. He was hard at work when Boruto Uzumaki and Sasuke Uchiha came to their base.