Title: Hako Kuroi
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Hako_Kuroi
-----------------------

is a genin from Team 25, that has joined Konohagakure's Anbu.Boruto episode 273

 Personality 
Hako is a very straight-forward person with a melancholic demeanour. She is very free and open with her opinions and likewise can be very blunt. Along with this direct nature, she is extremely perceptive, able to notice the smallest of details from a quick observation. From this, she can quickly discern the nature of person and their life to make correct conclusions on situations at hand. She seems to be very attached to her rabbit plushie, carrying it around regularly and decorating it with her Konoha forehead protector. Despite her normally indifferent nature, like many of the girls in her class, she can swoon over boys she is attracted to.

 Appearance 
Hako has dark blue hair and pink eyes that are often obstructed by her bangs. Her outfit consists of a black dress with a cape, as well as gloves and a ribbon on her head. 

 Abilities 
Alongside her team-mates, despite her young age, Hako excels in information gathering missions, often being assigned Anbu-class missions. 

 Ninjutsu 
Hako is able to manipulate puppets. Seemingly unlike most puppet users, she does not require the usage of her hands, able to keep them free for other tasks while still making her puppets move about as if on their own, as seen with her pink, rabbit plushie. She also has some skill in fūinjutsu, able to immobilise her foes in the field of her technique and likewise increase the power of it by working in unison with other users.Boruto episode 37 Sometime after becoming a genin, she was also trained in medical ninjutsu.Boruto episode 152 Under Sai Yamanaka's tutelage, Hako has become well-versed in Anbu combat tactics,Boruto episode 222 as well as jutsu to resist mental intrusion.Boruto episode 223

 New Era 
 Academy Entrance Arc 

On the day of the entrance ceremony, as everyone began looking for an absent Boruto Uzumaki, he suddenly appeared, crashing a train into the Hokage Monument, which left Hako amazed at his antics.

Later, her class was assigned by Shino Aburame to shadow a non-shinobi workplace to better understand its lifestyle.

 School Trip Arc 

Hako and her class went to Kirigakure for a field trip, where they were greeted by their tour guide, Kagura Karatachi, quickly gushing over him.

 Graduation Exams Arc 

During the graduation exams, Hako was knocked out by Konohamaru Sarutobi, alongside Tsuru Itoi and Renga Kokubō, leaving all three of them unconscious. Later, following Boruto's plan, they were able to eliminate the other proctors and face Kakashi Hatake to take the bell from him. Despite their group assault, Kakashi easily repelled all the students. This however proved to be a setup to get the Sixth Hokage in a group String Light Formation. Despite their effort, Kakashi was still able to hold them off. Ultimately, time ran out with no one getting the bell. However, Kakashi still chose to pass everyone as they succeeded in the test's true goal; teamwork and loyalty. Later, she was put on Team 25 alongside Hōki Taketori and Renga Kokubō.

 Byakuya Gang arc 

With the continued thefts performed by the Byakuya Gang throughout Konohagakure, Team 25 was assigned alongside the other genin teams to help stop the self-proclaimed noble thieves. However, the genin were not permitted to engage the Byakuya Gang without aid from a chūnin or higher-ranked shinobi.

Later, while their jōnin sensei was injured and put off duty, Team 25 began doing constant D-Rank missions. Eventually they were assigned to help with sorting packages at the post office. Hōki began giving all kinds of commands that quickly got on his team-mates nerve. The team was soon approached by Sukea, who was checking in on their work. Boruto and Sarada suddenly appeared, helping with an investigation on a mail bomber. After their fellow classmates diffused a bomb, while Hōki wanted to help out, Renga and Hako refused to continue working with Hōki any more than they were officially assigned. Before leaving, Hōki realised that there were more bombs still in circulation. Putting aside their differences, Team 25 decided to work together, working to their personal strengths to find the remaining bombs and avert disaster. Afterwards, at the suggestion of Sukea, Hōki apologised for his excessive commands, leading Renga and Hako to also apologise for their mistakes. Later, Team 25 was official reassigned to the command of Sai Yamanaka. Seeing their combined talents as ideal for intelligence gathering, Sai began training them extensively in Anbu tactics, regularly assigning them to such missions.

Sometime later, after Sumire Kakei resigned from her genin team to join the Scientific Ninja Weapons Team, Hako joined her friends in a farewell party for the former class rep.

 Mujina Bandits Arc 

When Sai learned that the visiting Fire Daimyō, Ikkyū Madoka was randomly gathering a very large sum of money, Sai and his team went to confront him. During which, Hako and her fellow genin found various members of the Mujina Bandits had infiltrated the village and swiftly captured them. They learned that Ikkyū's son, Tentō, was kidnapped by the bandits. Team 25 quickly went to work to save the boy, only to learn that Tentō was already saved by Team 7 and also captured the bandit's leader Shojoji. Hako later began taking medical ninjutsu training as it became mandatory that at least one member of team be a medical-nin.

 Kara Actuation Arc 

Some time later, after Sasuke Uchiha finished probing Shojiji's mind and learned of Kara, Team 25 was sent to aid Sasuke in investigating this new shadow organisation in Amegakure. The genin learned of underground tunnels and an area that was sealed off become of a gas leak. After mapping out the area for Sasuke and Sai, Hako and her fellow genin were ordered to return to Konohagakure, deeming the rest of the mission as too dangerous for them.

 Ao Arc 

Hako attended the memorial service for the fallen people of the Fourth Shinobi World War.

 Chūnin Re-Examination Arc 

Hako and her team participated in the new Chūnin Exams held by Naruto Uzumaki in order to promote more chūnin. She and her team passed the first test, however, only Hōki was able to pass the second test at the Forest of Death and proceed to the final test. Both Hako and Renga stayed behind in order for him to take the injured subordinate out of the forest. The following day, Hako and Renga decided to help Hōki train for his match. When approached by Sai, Hako and Renga assured their teacher they were okay knowing at least one of them made it to the finals, following the Anbu teachings of winning the match even if losing the challenge.

During the final exam, Hako and Renga watched in the stands to cheer on their team-mate. Hōki was in the first match against Inojin Yamanaka, Sai's son. They cheered for Hōki's victory. By the end of the exams, Hako celebrated Hōki's offical promotion with her team.

 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

Hako and her team arrested the associates of the minister from the Land of Bamboo on the ship at the uncharted island during their attempt to kidnap Princess Kae Yukiwari as ransom for the minister's release.

 Trivia 
 Befitting her appearance,  means "black clothes".