Title: Harika Aburame
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Harika_Aburame
-----------------------

is an Academy student from the Aburame clan in Konohagakure.

 Personality 
She is quite curious and discussed Kawaki's behaviour with her classmate. Like Soul, Harika is a rather simple girl who can happily pat her on the shoulder when her comrade succeeds, and maybe hit her in case of failure. She is easily surprised, and can be aggressive if ignored. Harika becomes happy when someone praises the dish she has prepared. While carefree normally, she has a very assertive and competitive side, easily intimidating the older Kawaki when angered.

 Appearance 
Harika is a fair-skinned girl who wears a headdress that looks like an aviator's helmet, through which two pigtails of brown hair stick out. She wears brown shorts, black stockings, a pair of plain sandals, and a short brown cloak, under which a blue bag is hidden, swooping over her shoulder. Like all members of the clan, Harika's eyes are covered with eyewear, her wearing what appear to be aviator goggles. She is also one of the tallest in her class.

 Abilities 

As a member of the Aburame clan, Harika is able to use the clan's techniques and provides her body as housing for the kikaichū. She able to use them for spying and reconnaissance, though their effective range is still limited. She is also skilled in cooking, being able to make curry, which Kawaki delighted in.

 New Era 
 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

Harika attended the Academy opening ceremony as part of a new class. Her classroom was put under the care of new teacher Hana Kaka. When her new classmates introduced themselves, Harika discussed them with the others, especially Kawaki. She was also present when the reporters interviewed Kae Yukiwari, and afterwards at class practice, where she admired Himawari Uzumaki and Eiki Fūma's shurikenjutsu skills.

She later attended a tea party hosted by Kae, where she noted that Kawaki's behaviour came across more as awkward than scary. After an incident involving Kawaki and cake was revealed to be due to Osuka forcing Neon to put mustard in the cake, Harika approved of Kae's outburst, scolding Osuka for her abuse of Neon. She and other students encouraged her to remain her genuine self, and continued the party, having taiyaki which Kawaki had brought.

During a practical lesson day, she was placed in a team alongside Soul and Kawaki. As he was older, the girls decided he should be team leader. However, Kawaki kept being distracted by his own secret mission to protect Kae, placing their team poorly in the assignments, angering the girls to the point Harika took over as leader. During lunch, she cooked curry and stressed he should make up for it during the afternoon tests. Kawaki's performance during the afternoon was much more committed, placing them highly in the tests, though not enough to place first in general over the lacklustre performance during the morning.

Later, Harika took part of a school play about the Sannin. During a rehearsal, Eiki going off script to try exposing Kawaki as an actual shinobi resulted in much of the set being damaged, after which Harika joined in the efforts to repair it.

During the festival, Harika, Neon, and the Sōgi twins worked together to make a haunted house experience, Harika using her kikaichū for special effects. When the festival suffered a terrorist threat, Harika stayed inside. Later, following Hana being hospitalised from the terrorist attack, Harika joined her class in welcoming back their teacher.

When Hana arranged for the class to undergo survival training on an uninhabited island, Kikuchiyo was injured by a trap, and later Neon's drone was damaged. When Doseki and Soul wanted to search the island for a potential missing-nin, Soul suggested they use Harika's kikaichū for the search, but she revealed their limited range compared to the injured ninken and the drone.

Attracted by an explosion, the class encountered Kawaki and Himawari, who revealed that Hana, actually an assassin, had killed Kae. Himawari pointed out that her actions made more sense if Hana wanted to keep Kae as a hostage. Working together, the students tracked Kae and Hana to a cave, Harika using her kikaichū to follow on a crumb trail Kae left using the pastry Konashi gave her earlier. Finding the situation too dangerous for the students, Kawaki revealed himself as a shinobi, and credited them for helping find Kae. Eiki still believed there was something they could do, leading them to the docks, hoping to get word of the situation out. They came across Sai, who came to the island with Team 25 after discovering Hana's Land of Bamboo background. Upon finding Hana defeated, her teacher personality struggled against the assassin one, eventually prevailing with the encouragement of her students and regaining control. As Kae had to return home, the class finally put on the Sannin play, and later saw her off at the train station.

 Trivia 
 Harika's name may be a corruption of the Japanese romanization of the word hurricane, , similar to her fellow clansmen Tatsuma and Torune who may be named after tornadoes and Shikuro after cyclones.