Title: Hayama Shirakumo
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Hayama_Shirakumo
-----------------------

is a jōnin of Konohagakure.

 Background 
He was assigned to patrol the northern borders along with Tekuno Kanden, Naruto Uzumaki, and Kosuke Maruboshi after the Konoha Crush. Not long after they were ambushed by a battalion of ninja from Iwagakure. Hayama stayed behind to allow the other members of the squad time to escape and report to the village. Along with Tekuno, he wiped out the majority of the ninja.

 Personality 
Hayama is a very quiet, calm and collected individual able to carefully assess situations and formulate strategies around that making him a good leader. He also has a great sense of duty to Konoha and to his subordinates that he'd rather protect than ever think of sacrificing.

 Appearance 
Hayama has long dull dark-grey hair held in a ponytail. He also has a scar running down the right side of his mouth and pronounced tear troughs under his eyes. He wears the standard Konoha shinobi outfit, albeit his uniform has short sleeves and like Tekuno, the traditional red, swirl pattern was only on his left shoulder sleeve. He also wears a pair of fingerless gloves and carries a thin katana strapped horizontally to his back.

 Abilities 

Hayama has  shown himself to be an undoubtedly skilled ninja. He is very adept at the use of kenjutsu which he uses in tandem with wind-nature transformation to create sharp blades of winds which are capable of serving multiple purposes. It can be used directly to attack his opponents, causing severe damage, or else be used to buffets them. The technique can also be used to counter incoming projectiles. He is also  proficient with the Body Flicker Technique, in which he uses leaves to mask his movements.

In addition, his years of experience has made him a highly analytical combatant and a adept strategist. This was seen not only in battle but during his preparation for one mission where he chose to take Kosuke Maruboshi on their mission because of his expertise.

 Part II 
 Past Arc: The Locus of Konoha 
Following Pain's assault on Konoha, he and the other villagers aided in the restoration of the village after the invasion.

 In Other Media 
 Movies 
 Naruto the Movie: Blood Prison 
During Naruto's flashback to the members of the village when he was gathering natural energy to enter Sage Mode, Hayama can been seen alongside, Tekuno and some other villagers.

 Trivia 
  means "white cloud", while hayama, when written as 端山, means "foothill".

pt-br:Hayama Shirakumo