Title: Heiji
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Heiji
-----------------------

, also known as , was a shinobi from Amegakure as well as the right-hand man of Kandachi. 

 Background 

Heiji was a subordinate in Hanzō's regime and the right hand of Kandachi who in turn was the right hand of Hanzō. At some point, he was killed within the walls of Amegakure. Some time later, he was accidentally reincarnated by Kabuto Yakushi who was looking for Hanzō instead.

 Personality 
Heiji seemed to be a relatively quiet man. He was prideful enough to express annoyance at being controlled.

 Appearance 

Heiji had purple eyes. He had a dark hat on his head and his lower face was mostly obscured by a helmet-like respirator, nearly identical to Hanzō's. The upper portion of this mask bore the symbol of his village and was mirrored by four indentations on the part covering his mouth. He wore the costume, which consisted of a diving equipment — as typical loose of his village, accentuated by bandages wrapped around their wrists over the blouse and lower legs, a flak jacket with swirls in the chest-plate and standard shinobi sandals.

 Abilities 

Heiji was capable of using a tag with a technique formula on it to create a smokescreen. It was effective in allowing other reincarnated shinobi to escape the battlefield, but he was not capable of escaping himself.

 Part II 
 Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation 

During the Fourth Shinobi World War, Kabuto deployed Heiji, whom he saw as one of his weaker assets, in an attempt to unseal his other, stronger pawns. During a scuffle between Kabuto's weaker reincarnates and the Allied Shinobi Forces, Heiji created a smokescreen diversion so some of the reincarnated shinobi could escape. Afterwards, he was cornered by the Fourth Division and sealed.

 Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax 
Later, when the Impure World Reincarnation Technique was cancelled, his soul was returned to the afterlife.

 In Other Media 
 Video Games 
In Naruto Mobile, Heiji, while still alive, appears in missions related to Amegakure.

 Trivia 
 "Heiji" can refer to a Japanese era, peaceful times, military affairs, or an earthenware pot.
 He was most likely killed by Pain, as the leader of Akatsuki killed every person close to Hanzō.

pt-br:Heiji