Title: Hibari Kamakura
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Hibari_Kamakura
-----------------------

is an actress in Konohagakure. 

 Background 
Hibari is an old friend of Neon's mother, leading Neon and Osuka to being friends. When Hibari became busier with work, she asked Neon to keep Osuka company.

 Personality 
At times, Hibari can come off as a workaholic, often doing projects to the point of not spending enough time with her family. Despite this, Hibari loves and cherishes her family, caring for their happiness and safety. She will even exhaust herself with projects to ensure it. 

 Appearance 
Hibari is a beautiful woman of slender frame. She has long, flowing purple hair and brown eyes. She wears a brown-grey dress with gold bracelets on both of her wrists.

 Abilities 
Hibari is an actress of great renown. She is also seemingly adept in scientific research, having helped the Scientific Ninja Weapons Team in upgrading drones with sensory capabilities.

 New Era 
 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

As Hibari's movie career continued to strain her relationship with her daughter, Osuka's bitterness reached its limit when Hibari threw out her favourite pudding. Later, Osuka was kidnapped along with Himawari. After the two were rescued by Neon and Kawaki, Hibari frantically arrived to hug her daughter. While Osuka was shocked by this reaction, Hibari insisted that a mother's first concern is always their child. She also revealed the reason she has been gone so much lately was because she was helping in designing a sensory system for the new drones, which is what Neon used to find Osuka and Himawari. Hibari also revealed that she threw out Osuka's pudding because it expired from her storing it for so long. As they reconciled, Hibari invited everyone out to enjoy some pudding together.

When the Academy held a festival, Hibari filmed all her scheduled scenes for the day quickly so she could attend, wishing to be there for Osuka's debut as the lead character on a play about the Sannin. They had their photo taken by Sōsha.

 Trivia 
 Written as 雲雀 (or as written usually) , her name means "skylark". Written as 火針 or 火鍼, it refers to heated acupuncture needles.
 Despite being mentioned by name, Hibari is only referred to as "Osuka's mother" in the credits.