Title: Hibiki
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Hibiki
-----------------------

is the sister of Kodama.

 Background 
After her father's murder and the investigation going nowhere over lack of evidence, Hibiki and Kodama became dedicated to avenging their father by finding the killer, who was a proficient Wind Release user and was left with a cross shaped scar after the encounter with their father. They would go from village to village attacking ex-shinobi who were Wind Release users, though they never killed any of their victims, leaving only cross shaped tears on their clothing to identify them. Hibiki and her brother would then spend a year in Konoha trying to find ex-shinobi who were Wind Release users. At some point, she found Mikazuki in pain in front of her house and took it to the vet. She began calling him "Niboshi," after the fish she began feeding him.

 Abilities 
Hibiki has some skill with a sword. She wields her father's sword, kept hidden in a flute, which she also plays.

 New Era 

Mitsuki found Hibiki playing her flute to Mikazuki. She explained to him how she came to find Mikazuki, and expressed a desire to live free, just as Mikazuki did. She returned to Kodama, who warned her not to befriend shinobi, and prepared to attack another former Wind Release user. During the attack, Mitsuki managed to injure her arm, deducing her involvement when he saw blood in Kodama's oden cart. Kodama tended to her wound and assured her they only had one more target to check. Mitsuki talked to her in a park, asking who their next target was, and she explained her story, though she didn't reveal the next target. She and Kodama attacked Daizen, but he read about their sleeping smoke in the newspaper and wasn't knocked out. He attacked them, his Wind Release injuring Hibiki and convincing Kodama he was their father's killer. Mitsuki blocked his attack, the rest of Team 7 and Kōtarō catching up. After exposing and capturing Daizen, Hibiki and Kodama were only banished from Konoha, as they didn't actually kill anyone in their attacks. Mitsuki came to see her off, and she gave him some niboshi to feed Mikazuki.

 Trivia 
 Written as 響き, "Hibiki" means "to echo".