Title: Hidari
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Hidari
-----------------------

is an evolved, self-aware Human God Tree produced by Code's Ten-Tails after one of his Claw Grimes ate Sasuke Uchiha and transformed into a tree.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 12, page 10

 Personality 
Compared to the other self-aware Human God Trees, Hidari is taciturn and rarely expresses himself, feeling the most unclear of his identity. Because he was created from Sasuke's chakra, his newly formed individual identity is shaped by Sasuke's emotions and bonds. His feelings are especially stimulated by thoughts of Sasuke's daughter, Sarada Uchiha, and as a result of his instinct to consume chakra being altered by his evolution, he has chosen her as the target he wishes to devour. Hidari has also been shown to be a lunar individual with little to no sense of reality. This is particularly noticeable when he seriously asked if Naruto Uzumaki was in the library or when he didn't even realised his role as an invader, asking Jura why Konoha-nin were interfering with them before asking the same question to the shinobi.

 Appearance 

Hidari strongly resembles Sasuke, but lacks eyebrows and hair. He is tall and well-built in frame, with talon feet, which had 5 digits, unlike the other self-aware Human God Trees.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 8, page 27 Like the other self-aware Human God Trees he wears clothing made from Claw Marks, including a long, black, studded cloak with pale yellow lining and a hood that's cut and draped over his left eye to resemble Sasuke's fringe bangs. He also wears oversized baggy black pants and a studded black arm guard on his left forearm. Though he otherwise appears human, he possesses a pair of purple Rinnegan.

 Abilities 
Being a sentient Human God Tree, Hidari is a dangerous being, considered to be a monster with power well-above his own creator Code,Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 4, page 37Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 6, page 9 as he could pressure Boruto, despite his Ōtsutsuki prowess.

 Shinjutsu 
Being created partial from the Claw Marks, he is able to generate and manipulate them himself, able to seamlessly move through them as he pleases.

 Ninjutsu 

 Nature Transformation 

As Sasuke is a genetic template for him, Hidari has access to the powerful shinobi's various techniques. This includes Sasuke's Lightning Release such as Chidori. However, he has trouble using it properly without a Sharingan. With Sasuke's Fire Release, he can produce powerful flames to quickly incinerate his targets. As a Human God Tree, he can also use Earth and Water Release to produce Wood Release, able to ensnare his targets with his constructs.

 Physical and Chakra Prowess 
Hidari possesses exceptional speed and strength. He is able to move fast enough that Boruto and Code could barely react. Likewise, he could dodge point-blank Daikokuten chakra rods,Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 8, page 31 something his own genetic template, Sasuke had struggled with.Boruto chapter 37, page 22Boruto chapter 52, pages 19-20 He also has the ability to transform his forearms into a curved blade. He can rapidly heal minor injuries, and for more severe ones, can manipulate the roots of a specific tree to mend himself.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 12, page 19

 New Era: Part II 
 Boruto's Return Arc 

When Boruto followed Code to the dimension where he kept his Ten-Tails imprisoned, what remained of it suddenly disappeared. Moments later, a creature resembling Bug appeared and attacked Boruto, who explained that the creature was a Human God Tree, having evolved into a new form due to Code's modifications. Hidari appeared soon after along with two other evolved Human God Trees, Matsuri and their apparent leader, Jura, who explained that they had gained self-awareness. Hidari remained silent, but drew Boruto's attention, who glared at him angrily and readied for battle. Hidari swiftly appeared behind Boruto using a Claw Mark and attempted to slash him with his right arm transformed into a blade, following it up with a Chidori that Boruto countered using a Rasengan.

Following Boruto and Code's retreat, Jura declared that their newly awakened curiosity was temporarily overwhelming their instinct to devour, but that Boruto would not be able to escape his fate. Hidari later joined the other Human God Trees in their base beneath the roots of a giant tree, where they discussed their newly developing individual identities and the emotions stimulating them, which were producing cravings that they couldn't explain. Hidari remained largely silent, only questioning what they are. In response, Jura suggested that they would be defined by their actions and should follow their instincts and choose targets to devour, believing that it would enlighten them as to their true nature. Moments later, Hidari decided that his target would be Sarada Uchiha, with Jura praising the choice. Hidari later sat by Jura's side as Jura read several books before deciding to go visit Naruto.

They went to Konoha through a mindless Claw Grime. They easily killed the guards at the gate. He followed Jura to a bookstore, asking if that was where Naruto was. He dodged Kawaki's assault, and after Jura kicked Kawaki aside, he followed Jura, who was surprised that he sensed was Himawari instead of Naruto. As Team 10 approached Hidari and Jura, it was explained how they were looking for Naruto through the Nine-Tails' chakra, only to be surprised by finding the trail leading to Himawari. As Team 10 tried to stop Jura, the sentient Human God Tree showed his immense power by launching a Tailed Beast Ball, they decided to run with Himawari. Hidari found them foolish for giving up their lives so recklessly, but Jura corrected him, noting that they are motivated by something deeper. As Jura chased after his prey, Hidari was confronted by Konoha-nin, paying them no interest. Suddenly, Sarada arrived. Seeing his personal target, Hidari attacked her with Chidori. Using her Sharingan, Sarada was able to dodge and counter with her own Chidori, injuring the Human God Tree.

As Sarada asked who Hidari is, the Human God Tree quickly healed his wound, noting that he is still trying to figure out who he is. Through his Claw Marks, he neutralizes Sarada with Lightning Release. He then proceeds to subdue Konohamaru Sarutobi and Sumire Kakei. As he prepares to consume Sarada through his Wood Release, he notes his hope this will help him understand his connection to her, only to be stopped by Boruto's intervention.

As Boruto managed to repel Hidari, the other Konoha-nin reluctantly decided to work with the missing-nin to stop Hidari. The Human God Tree then retreated into his Claw Marks and unleashed several Claw Grimes, forcing his enemies on the defensive as he continued to look for openings to devour Sarada. Upon seemingly succeeding in capturing Sarada, Hidari was instead caught by Sarada's Chidori Current, paralyzing him. She then threw Hidari to Boruto, who perform his Rasengan: "Uzuhiko". With Hidari momentarily downed, Kawaki appeared and obliterated the Human God Tree. As Boruto obtained Hidari's Thorn Soul Bulb in the hopes of saving Sasuke, Jura shot down Boruto and took the bulb himself.

Soon after, Jura returned to the lair and placed the bulb on a Daihakoten cube. The surrounding branches then connected to it and resurrected Hidari with his memories and identity intact. Hidari then joined his allies in the awakening of a new sentient Human God Tree, Ryū. As the new sentient Human God Tree adjusted to his new identity, it was noticed that Code was hiding and he was captured. The lone Kara member demanded that the Human God Trees go after Kawaki and Boruto to produce Chakra Fruit for him to consume. As Jura made it clear that Code is not in charge anymore, and that they were too powerful for Code, Jura offered instead to give Code a Chakra Fruit after he killed Boruto and his unknown accomplice. Code accepted and left.

Later, after Matsuri and Ryū left for a mission to find Boruto, Jura talked with his fellow God Trees about his revelation. He concluded that the sentient God Trees are not dissimilar to humans, as their emotions can easily be shaken and changed, which can prove a key weakness to their defeat.

 Mamushi Arc 

As Jura began crying after finishing a novel, Hidari asked the cause of moisture appearing from Jura's eyes. Jura admitted he came to experience various feelings from Matsuri, all centered around the feelings of love. This intrigued Hidari.

 Trivia 
  means "left". This draws several connections to its chakra source, Sasuke Uchiha, as he was left-handed, a reincarnation of Indra Ōtsutsuki, and left represents evil, darkness, and malice in many religions and cultures.
 The pale yellow cloak lining he wears is the inverse colour of the blue cloak lining worn by Sasuke in the manga.

 Quotes 
 (To Sarada Uchiha) "I have no idea who I am. But somehow... The one thing I did know about, from the get-go, is you... Sarada Uchiha. So I ask you... Who are you? What will I gain... if I devour you?"Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 11, page 38