Title: Himawari Uzumaki
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Himawari_Uzumaki
-----------------------

is a kunoichi of Konohagakure, a member of the Uzumaki clan, and a direct descendant of the Hyūga clan. Sometime after its demise, Kurama was reborn inside Himawari, making her its fourth and newest jinchūriki.

 Background 

Himawari is the second and youngest child of Naruto and Hinata Uzumaki, born six years after the Fourth Shinobi World War and two years after her brother, Boruto. As her parents continued to stay close to their own childhood friends, she ultimately got to know the kids of her parents' respective friends very well. In the anime, she appears to be close with Sarada Uchiha, who calls her "Hima-chan".

On the day that Naruto was to be inaugurated as the Seventh Hokage, Himawari wanted to bring her panda toy to the ceremony, but Boruto, fearing that he would end up carrying it, tried to take it away from her. When the toy's head was ripped off in the ensuing tug-of-war, Himawari awoke her Byakugan and attacked Boruto in her anger, despite his vehement apologies. Naruto, sensing her killing intent, arrived and shielded Boruto, though he was knocked out in the process. Fearful of what an attack that could defeat his father would do to him, Boruto tried to run from Himawari, but she quickly located her brother hiding in a closet. From then on, he vowed to never anger her again.

 Personality 
Himawari is a cheerful and considerate girl. This also extends to strangers, such as when she gave up her much-desired Kurama toy to a boy, believing that he needed it more than her. Likewise, she shows a strong affinity towards animals, able to approach most wild beasts calmly and with acceptance from them. She is quite considerate about her own future; while many expect her to become a kunoichi due to her lineage, she has decided to experience various career paths to determine her own goals, a choice her mother supports and encourages since she didn't had the same opportuny growing up.. She has picked up her father's trait of referring to others with nicknames, such as when she referred to Orochimaru as "Oro-chan".Naruto Retsuden 

Although she is very mature and responsible for her age, Himawari has a temper, becoming violent when provoked, much like her grandmother Kushina. For example, when her favourite plush was accidentally damaged by Boruto, she assaulted him. She usually has no memory of these outbursts, but this display of aggression made her elder brother run away and hide from her and vow never to anger her again. The same event also caused her father and Kurama to be terrified of her.The Day Naruto Became Hokage (OVA) As mentioned by Iruka Umino, she possesses the same stubbornness that her father and brother possess, while also being somewhat boisterous and hyperactive, mainly when she's determined in achieving a certain goal. She also shows signs of her father's nindō of never giving up at the face of difficulty, as seen when she urged Ehō Norimaki to continue their Academy trial session despite them being trapped in a well. However, contrary to Boruto, she is also shown to display the same traits of patience and humbleness of her grandfather Minato, being able to remain calm under dangerous situations and push herself to help others. She is also very forgiving, able to acknowledge peoples' change when they make the effort to do the right thing.Boruto episode 266

Himawari is shown to adore her family. She hopes to make her late cousin Neji happy by bringing flowers to his grave, a scene which touched her mother's heart. She often helps her mother with chores and, when her mother was injured during Momoshiki's attack, she stayed by her bedside as she was healed by Sakura, whom she refers as her "aunt" out of fondness for her friendship with her parents. She is mostly understanding of her often-absent father and his Hokage duties, even after he missed her birthday, but yearns for him to be home.Boruto: Naruto the Movie She has a very close bond with her older brother, always hoping to play with him whenever possible. She is also quite intrusive with her adoptive brother, however, as when Kawaki enrolled at the Academy in a secret mission to protect Kae Yukiwari, Himawari continually questioned him attempting to grow closer to her, pouting whenever he blew her off to keep his mission a secret. When Kawaki and Naruto discussed the mission at home, she eavesdropped on them, and subsequently offered to help Kawaki appear more friendly in an attempt to befriend Kae, teaching about proper etiquette and mannerisms of "friendship", all of which made him uncomfortable due to his personality clashing with Himawari's advice.

Three years after Boruto left Konoha, Himawari showed a noticeable new maturity to her nature. While having essentially become an orphan, she resolved to grow stronger to help those she cared for, training regularly with her friends. Likewise, her bravery and loyalty to her loved ones remains unshaken, being willing to sacrifice herself for their well-being. She is also shown able to quickly adjust to surreal changes as they occur, including the sudden emergence of Kurama in her life.

 Appearance 

Himawari bears a striking resemblance to her mother, having her dark-blue hair that she wears with straight bangs and a himecut. Like her brother, her hair flares out on the sides and back, and she has an  on the top of her head, which resembles the stem of a leaf. She has inherited her father's blue eyes, whisker markings on each cheek, unruly hair, and facial features. She is considered very cute.Boruto episode 33 

As a toddler, Himawari wore a pink sweater, a three-layered white flutter skirt, black pants, and a pair of flat pink sandals, with a light green twin bead hairband on her Ahoge. While visiting Neji Hyūga's grave, she wore a collared, long-sleeved yellow shirt with an orange cross-hatch pattern that resembled a sunflower, red pumpkin shorts, and yellow shinobi sandals. In Boruto: Naruto the Movie, she wears a light yellow long-sleeved hooded-sweater with a blue shirt underneath that has a petal-like pattern, and a two-layered pink flutter skirt. She also wears long, black open-toed stockings and fuchsia shinobi sandals. Later, when joining the Academy, Himawari wears a black long-sleeved, turtleneck shirt with a yellow jacket and grey shorts with black leggings.

Three years after Boruto's departure from Konoha, Himawari grew noticeably taller, almost reaching her brother's classmates' height. Her hair grew to mid-back, with bangs framing the sides of her face and reaching slightly past her shoulders, similar to her paternal grandmother. She wore a dark short shirt under a yellow cap-sleeved crop top with a sunflower design on the lower left side, exposing her midriff. Himawari also wore blue baggy pants with a long, pink belt that the end hangs loosely at her knee, two bracelets of blue and purple on both wrists, grey shinobi sandals with white soles, and a black choker around her neck with a yellow sunflower design hanging to the left side.

 Abilities 
Well before training as a ninja, similar to her older brother, Himawari has shown considerable potential and prodigious talent as a result of her Uzumaki-Hyūga bloodlines. Even more, her untrained might as a child could terrify her brother and knock out her very powerful father with a single blow. Since entering the Academy, she quickly became a standout among her fellow students for her performance. Following her new status as a jinchūriki, her immense potential excited even Daemon, whose might exceeds the full-powered Code. While accessing her new power, she briefly overwhelmed Jura, the leader and strongest of the Human God Trees, forcing him to use actual effort for the first time in his life to defeat her.

 Byakugan 

At a very young age, from her Hyūga heritage, Himawari awakened the Byakugan in anger when her favourite toy was torn. Hiashi noted how impressive it was, especially with no prior training. When activated, her normally blue eyes take on the white and featureless appearance of the Byakugan with the veins on her temples bulging. With it, she possesses a near 360° field of x-ray vision (except for a small blind spot at the upper thoracic vertebrae). She can also see through solid surfaces, across great distances, and clearly perceive the chakra pathway system and locate the tenketsu. Without prior training, she could quickly make effective use of it. At the same time, she has originally had no conscious control over her Byakugan's activation, only activating involuntarily from moments of extreme emotional build-up. By age 10, she learned to access it at will,Boruto episode 154 though struggles to maintain it for long periods.Boruto episode 264

 Physical and Chakra Prowess 

As a descendant of the Uzumaki, Himawari inherited a powerful life-force and chakra. She has very advanced chakra control  for her age. With no prior training, she could perform Tree Climbing Practice on her first try and only failed from losing focus. In addition, Himawari has deceptive raw might, able to launch large amounts of scrap metal with a single strike and jump a considerable distance into the air. She likewise could move too fast for Boruto to follow.Boruto episode 126 Naturally, she has remarkable agility and athleticism, easily completing an Academy training course and beating other children who already had trained rigorously. 

From a young age, Himari has shown an innate talent for the Gentle Fist, able to knock out a grown man in a single blow for an entire day, while also shutting down all of their tenketsu. She has since underwent extensive training with her mother's clan. Since joining the Academy, her skills in both conventional taijutsu and the Gentle Fist have also enabled her to compete against much bigger and more experienced opponents, even overpower them at points.

 Ninjutsu 
Himawari has considerable shurikenjutsu skill, having practised regularly with her brother, able to easily hit the bullseye. Since entering the Academy, she has become proficient in various basic skills like the Rope Escape Technique. Later, Himawari learned to manipulate her hair as tendrils to grab and attack with.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex, chapter 11, page 3-4

 Jinchūriki Transformations 

Sometime after Kurama's demise, the tailed beast resurrected in Himawari, making the girl a jinchūriki herself. This was first noticed by Daemon, feeling an intensity coming from her as a result of the synergy between her Uzumaki-Hyūga blood and Kurama's chakra.Boruto Database: Ikemoto Q&A Three years after Boruto's departure from Konohagakure, Kurama's resurrection matured enough to talk with Himawari within her subconscious at will.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 9, pages 39-40 It is surmised that the lingering kernels of Kurama's chakra were drawn to Himawari due to her heritage, or having already inherited some of Kurama's chakra at birth as its previous jinchūriki's child.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 10, page 20 While gaining access to the same powers and immense chakra reserves Naruto had before her,Boruto: Two Blue Vortex, chapter 10, page 23 Himawari's compatibility with the tailed beast greatly exceeds any of her predecessors, allowing her to draw on even greater power.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 10, pages 29 While originally only able to access it in moments of greater anger, she quickly adjusted and learned to tap into Kurama's power. Likewise, she quickly learned how to communicate at will with Kurama within her mental realm.

When accessing this power, Himawari's irises turn red with vertical slitted pupils, gains dark rings around her eyes, plus her nails and canine teeth grow longer and sharp. Her hair grows longer and thicker, flowing in nine locks akin to tails, similar to Kushina, and her whisker-like marks thicken. While new to it, she shows remarkable efficiency, Jura noting that her potency is more like a true Tailed Beast rather than a jinchūriki, able to perfectly unleash a Tailed Beast Ball powerful enough to match Jura’s own Tailed Beast Ball.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 11, pages 14 Her physical parameters grow tremendously, able to effortlessly break from a Wood Release binding and strike with great force, launching targets with great distances. She likewise has strong regeneration, able to heal from the most maiming of injuries with no lingering signs in seconds.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 10, pages 31 and 40 Due to her unique compatibility with Kurama, she can also heal others just as seamlessly. At the same time, too many repeated healings on herself apparently quickly depletes her stamina, able to pass out from it.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 11, pages 33 With Kurama's genuine partnership to Himawari, she can access the power with no ill effects to her health or mentality. This can also grant her immunity to genjutsu.

 Intelligence 
Himawari is a rather smart and educated girl. Even before attending the Academy, she has a strong understanding of chakra manipulation and its applications to advanced techniques like the Shadow Clone Technique.Boruto chapter 29 Like her parents, she is very astute to other people's nature, able to notice changes in their attitude.Boruto episode 261

 New Era: Part I 
 Academy Entrance Arc 

In the anime, on the day before the entrance ceremony for Boruto to attend the Academy, Hinata tells her children again about how her time in the Academy with Naruto was, which Himawari enjoyed. Later, when Boruto returned home, Himawari asked him to play with her. As he politely declined as he had homework, remembering Himawari's Byakugan, Boruto asked Hinata about the dōjutsu, hoping to figure out more about what has been happening with him. Soon afterwards, Naruto returned home, too tired from work to join his family for dinner, much to Himawari's disappointment.

Later, as Boruto began acting weird, portraying himself like a flashy movie hero, Himawari grew concerned for her brother. Once her family confronted him about this, he said he finally awakened his Byakugan, shocking everyone. As Naruto remembered how Himawari was able to manifest her Byakugan with no prior training, he considered it possible, deciding to take both his kids to Hiashi Hyūga for better answers. Upon arriving at their grandfather's home, the aging Hyūga head quickly began doting over his grandkids, which Himawari quickly returned the similar feelings. Himawari then began to play with her aunt Hanabi while Hiashi talked with Boruto. After discussing Boruto's allegation of manifesting his Byakugan, it was decided to test the theory with a duel against Hanabi. Himawari watched in dismay at Boruto was soundly defeated by their aunt, which left everyone to conclude that Boruto did not gain the Byakugan. Afterwards, it was decided for Himawari and her family to spend the night over in the Hyūga house. The following day, after Boruto came to terms with not having the Byakugan, he reverted to his normal personality, shocking Himawari again.

Later, Himawari helped her mother make a big feast to welcome Boruto's friend and classmate Mitsuki. Much to her joy, Naruto was also joining them for dinner as he finished work early. Himawari runs towards her father and embraces him as she blissfully talks about how she helped Hinata make dinner and then sits with her family at the dining table. However, as dinner was about to begin, learning from one of his dispersed clones, Naruto left to investigate a strange release of chakra spreading throughout the village, leaving both Boruto and Himawari disappointed. Despite this, Himawari seemed to understand along with her mother while Boruto showed great displeasure with Naruto.

 Sarada Uchiha Arc 

In the anime, Himawari became sick due to a fever. As Boruto was watching over her while Hinata went to pickup her medicine, Naruto arrived home worried about her, making Himawari extremely happy.

On the day of the Kage Summit, Himawari accompanied her mother in visiting Neji Hyūga's grave. When she asked her mother if he would like the sunflowers she brought for him, Hinata assured her that he would, because they were the same as her name. She then cheerfully said that she wanted to visit the memorial site again with her brother.

 School Trip Arc 

In the anime, as Boruto was getting ready to go on a field trip to Kirigakure, Himawari saw him off, asking him to bring back a souvenir, which he promised to do. When he returned however, having been caught up in stopping a would-be coup d'état, he forgot his promise completely, leaving Himawari sad. As Himawari became very withdrawn, Hinata finally broke her silence and reminded Boruto of his promise. Ashamed of this, Boruto insisted that he had to get the present from one of his friends, much to her joy. He later returned with a Kiri box of sweets, but having got in contact with his friend Kagura Karatachi, who apologised for his own actions, encouraged Boruto to come clean. He then gave Himawari both the box and an apology, admitting to his mistakes, which Himawari happily accepted.

Himawari entered a children's art competition where she won first prize for a drawing of her father. Sai Yamanaka invited Himawari to the academy to act as a guest teacher in hopes she was able to help Inojin Yamanaka with his art slump much to Boruto's annoyance. Later, Inojin sought Himawari to become his teacher so he could learn about art and he realised the importance of putting emotion into his artwork when he rescued the drawing she made of Naruto.

 Genin Mission Arc 

In the anime, as Boruto prepared for his first genin mission, Himawari saw him off and wished him good luck.

 Byakuya Gang Arc 

In the anime, when the Byakuya Gang show up in the village Himawari is eating dinner with her mother and brother and she asks her mother if the Byakuya Gang good or bad.

On the day of Boruto's birthday, Himawari helped her mother prepare the party. After Naruto failed to join the party because of work, Himawari, who's own birthday was quickly approaching, began making efforts to ensure that her father attended it. Seeing how important this was to his little sister, Boruto swore he would make sure that their father came.

 Naruto Shinden: Parent and Child Day 

Himawari was found sleeping at their doorstep in eager anticipation of Naruto returning home for Parent and Child Day. Himawari asked her father for the new Kurama doll released for the day and a sleep-deprived Naruto agreed once learning about the limited edition nature of the toy. The two headed out and find a giant crowd waiting outside the toy store before its opening who were all also looking to buy the doll. Naruto and Himawari met Kiba Inuzuka and his two dogs, Akamaru and Akemaru, who was also looking for the doll to buy for his girlfriend Tamaki. Himawari happily petted the two dogs as Kiba and her father joined the rush inside the store, but both failed to find the Kurama doll (Naruto purchased a Shukaku doll by mistake).

Kiba suggested they split up and search other stores to find the toy for Himawari. Naruto and Himawari went to Yamanaka Flowers but Ino was unable to help them. However, she gave Himawari sunflowers as a thank you for helping Inojin Yamanaka during his art slump. They went to Tenten's tool shop, but she was also unable to help them with regards to the doll. Instead, Naruto purchased a set of kunai and a necklace from Tenten to help her business. Naruto and Himawari met up with Kiba who was successful in finding the toy, only to realise it was stolen. Naruto gave chase to the culprit only to learn he was a father who wanted to gift the doll to his son, who he doesn't get to see very often. Himawari chose to give the toy to the young boy, instead appreciating both the other gifts her father had got for her as well as the time they shared together. After a few more attempts at finding a Kurama doll failed, the two returned home. Himawari then went to sleep, with Hinata watching over her, cuddled up with her Shukaku doll, while Naruto spent time with Boruto.

 Versus Momoshiki Arc 

On the day of her birthday, Himawari and her mother were cleaning in Naruto's study when she found her father's old tattered jacket and showed it to her mother, making her smile. Later on, they met up with Boruto and his teammates in the village and Himawari excitedly told him that they had to hurry home for her birthday. On the night, Naruto was unable to make it home to celebrate and sent a shadow clone instead, which ended up disappearing and dropping her birthday cake. This angered Boruto, who had already warned Naruto to not miss the event, although Himawari was less upset than her brother. 

When Boruto came home, after successfully passing the second round of the Chūnin Exams, Himawari excitedly congratulated him. She later attended the last round of the Chūnin Exams with her mother to watch Boruto's fight with Shikadai. She cheered for him when Boruto won the fight, but he ended up being disqualified for cheating. Himawari asked her mother if Boruto did something bad, but Hinata remained silent and just hugged her without actually answering. When Momoshiki and Kinshiki suddenly appeared and attacked the arena, she fled with her mother.

After the attack, when Hinata was injured while trying to protect Naruto, Himawari anxiously stood by her mother's bedside, holding her hand as she was healed by Sakura Uchiha. In the anime, Himawari and Boruto shared a belated birthday dinner, with Naruto even appearing in person instead of sending a shadow clone. After Boruto punched Naruto, thinking it was a shadow clone, Naruto began scolding him, while Himawari asked for a piggy back ride. Hinata maintained order by threatening to throw the cake away. The next day, Himawari had breakfast with her family. As her father and brother prepared to leave for the day, she told her father not to forget his lunch and gave it to him before she and her mother saw them off at the front door.

 Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc 

In the anime, Himawari happily hugged her brother to welcome him home after he returned from his unofficial adventure in Iwagakure.

 Sasuke Shinden: The Teacher's Star Pupil 

Boruto sees Himawari watching Lily Himeno on television and humming along with Lily's singing. Boruto asks if Himawari likes Lily, which Himawari confirms, describing Lily as "cute" and a good dancer.

 One-Tail Escort Arc 

In the anime, Himawari was excited about going on a camping trip with her family. Later however, she was upset to hear that Boruto was going on a training mission with Team 7 (unaware that Boruto was really going to find Sasuke to train with him). 

Later, when Boruto returned with Shukaku sealed in a tea kettle, Himawari immediately took a liking the miniaturised tailed beast, treating him as a talking Shukaku toy and kept it close to her when it was decided that Naruto would watch over the tanuki. While Shukaku found her attachment annoying, it was intrigued to learn that she once knocked out Kurama. Hoping to learn how she did as a chance to have some mocking rights on the fox, Shukaku decided to play nice with Himawari. Ultimately however, when learning that Himawari had no knowledge of the incident, Shukaku quickly turned cold again and told her to leave it alone, much to her sadness.

When later returning to look for it, she and Boruto were horrified to discover that it was mistaken for trash and sent to the scrapyard. When they grew desperate to save the tanuki before it get crushed by the machinery, Himawari's despair activated her Byakugan again and quickly saved Shukaku. Amazed at how genuinely concerned Himawari was for it, Shukaku became kinder to her. Later, she was sad when she learned that Shukaku would be moved to a new safehouse, but smiled after seeing Shukaku giving her a friendly goodbye.

 Time Slip Arc 

In the anime, as Boruto was eager to train with Sasuke again, Hinata noted that Boruto was just like Naruto at that age, always eager to train with his mentor Jiraiya. Hinata then showed Himawari and Boruto a photo of the Sannin, who Himawari noted looked eccentric and wild. Hinata told her kids about Jiraiya's greatness as a ninja and how influential he was to Naruto, even becoming a father-figure.

Some time later, Himawari joined her family in celebrating her grandfather's birthday. With Hinata's help, Himawari picked out a scarf for the older man, wanting to ensure his continued good health. Afterwards, as part of Boruto's present, Himawari joined her family in a group photo.

 Mujina Bandits Arc 

In the anime, Himawari was offered a one-day trial session at the Ninja Academy. There, she met Yuina Itomaki and Ehō Norimaki as her practice team-mates. While amazing her fellow trainees with her natural talent for ninja skills, they were shocked to learn that the Hokage's daughter wasn't sure about becoming a shinobi. Ehō was especially annoyed at this, feeling that she was treating shinobi life as a game. This put a strain on the practice team when they were given a mission to retrieve a missing pet cat. When Ehō scolded Himawari for thinking of giving up so easily as things got difficult, she was left behind to pout.

She was approached by Principal Iruka Umino. As she admitted to feeling guilty for not taking the trial seriously like her team-mates, Iruka insisted that there is no rush to find a career path at her age, but rather this trial was merely meant to give children motivation on looking towards the future. Himawari resolved herself to complete the mission, earning praise from Iruka for her gutsiness akin to her father.

She found her team-mates had fallen into a well with the cat. While Ehō considered quitting rather than accepting Himawari's help, she scolded him, insisting to never give up. Working in unison with each other, the three were able to climb out with the cat to complete the mission. Later that night, Himawari voiced her new desire to experience all the various jobs in the village to find her path, and teasingly asked her brother for assistance. Himawari, Yuina and Ehō kept up their friendship and their training of shinobi skills.

 Kara Actuation Arc 

In the anime, Himawari was heartbroken when she heard her big brother was defeated in battle and deeply injured. As Boruto was operated on, she and her mother watched in concern. Naruto soon arrived, equally concerned about his son. Upon seeing that he was stabilised, Naruto assured his daughter that Boruto was going to fine, much to her relief.

After Boruto was released from the hospital and began training under Kakashi Hatake to grow stronger, Himawari was still concerned for her brother. Hinata however insisted that Boruto was a true ninja and desired to be of true aid to others. At her mother's suggestion, Himawari helped cheer Boruto on by helping her mother make a bento for him and deliver it to him, leaving a note to remind him that he was not alone.

 Ao Arc 

In the anime, Himawari attended the memorial service for the fallen people of the Fourth Shinobi World War. Later, as a birthday present to their mother, Himawari made a vase, reminding Boruto he needed to get a gift as well. Ultimately, Boruto contributed a bunch of freshly picked flowers to Himawari's vase.

 Kawaki Arc 

When Boruto's team returned from their mission with a mysterious boy of unique abilities, rather than lock him up, Naruto, sympathising as a former man-made potential weapon, decided to treat the boy as guest to the village and let him live at his home. During which the rebellious boy's unfriendly attitude made Himawari keep her distance. As the boy kept seeing everyone as his enemy, he soon made his move to escape, only to be stopped by Naruto's brief show of power. When Boruto returned, Himawari greeted her brother, only to see to her sorrow that the guest's actions destroyed her personal vase, which she made as a gift to Hinata. As Himawari began cleaning up the broken pieces, the boy gruffly apologised for his unintentional action, introducing himself as Kawaki. The next day, Hinata helped her dispose of the broken vase, assuring her the care she put into making it for Hinata is what mattered most. During a meal, she teased her brother over his noticing of their father staying home with them all day long.

Later, Naruto offered to do some sparing with Boruto. Boruto claimed to only do so because his father wanted, but Himawari teased him about being excited. She watched the match alongside Kawaki, who was fascinated by the shadow clones. After Himawari explained their nature, Kawaki insisted that Boruto try using his Kāma, as understanding its power would be the first step to removing it. Knowing that Boruto still couldn't activate it at will, Kawaki activated his own so Boruto's would respond in kind. Naruto approved of his son using it and quickly showed a considerable improvement in performance. Afterwards, despite Boruto still losing, Naruto applauded his son on his recent growth. Kawaki was curious at how the father and son showed their respect with the Seal of Reconciliation, which Himawari also explained.

Later, as Kawaki struggled to repair Himawari's vase, she happily said buying a new one was enough. Boruto then came and accepted Kawaki's offer of learning what he knows about their Kāma. As Himawari watched alongside her father the two boy's sparring match, while Boruto quickly activated his mark, he failed to make actual usage of it as his attempt to absorb Kawaki's blast burnt his hand. After Naruto cancelled the match he was alerted of an intruder. Naruto told Boruto to take Himawari away while he stayed with Kawaki, certain that the intruder was after Kawaki. His assumption proved correct as they were quickly met by Delta, who demanded Kawaki be handed over to her. Before engaging her in battle, Naruto instructed Boruto to protect Himawari, and the two watched as the battle escalated. When Delta later used her as bait to get Naruto hit by her laser eyes, her father and Kawaki later intervened and saved her. Himawari watched the fight until her father defeated Delta after overcoming her ability to absorb chakra, and celebrated his victory.

Later, Himawari left with Hinata to shop for dinner just before Jigen, leader of Kara, arrived at their home. He was able to critically injure Naruto and Sasuke in an attempt to reclaim Kawaki. After the failed attempt, Himawari and her family were relieved when Naruto made a quick recovery. In the anime, following Kawaki's release from the hospital, she found a lone and injured white wolf she named "Jaggy". She spent the next week trying to care for it by bringing it food. Her secret was eventually discovered by Kawaki, who agreed to keep quiet. Ultimately however, Jaggy was killed by a bear. Saddened, she insisted that if the wolf was aided by its former pack, Jaggy would have lived. Kawaki aided her burying the wolf. Unaware of it, Himawari's words aided Kawaki in reconsidering his decision to leave the village.

 Chūnin Re-Examination Arc 

In the anime, following Isshiki's attack, Naruto hosted a new Chūnin Exam. Himawari noticed that Boruto was happy with himself for passing the first written exam, judging from him buying Kawaki some taiyaki. She told Kawaki that her mother disapproves of them snacking before dinner.

The day of the finals, while practising, Ehō noticed a group of suspicious men, and tracked them along Yuina to the train station, while Himawari went to get Boruto and Mitsuki for help. They witnessed the men kidnapping Amado, and the genin gave chase, Himawari and her friends staying behind. By the day's end, Boruto returned home, saving Amado but missing his match in the finals. Himawari later joined her family for dinner.

 Great Sea Battle of Kirigakure Arc 

In the anime Himawari won a raffle to take her family on a vacation to a hot spring resort. She acted as a referee when Boruto and Kawaki lost at ping-pong to Naruto and Hinata, and later beat her father in a card matching game. She was angry with Boruto and Kawaki upon learning they went to a stamp hunt through the inn without her, even activating her Byakugan, Boruto rushing to apologise to her and urging Kawaki to do the same.

 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

In the anime, while still unsure of her career path, Himawari decided to enrol in the Ninja Academy to figure out more about herself and meet new people. There, she was delighted to end up in the same class as Ehō and Yuina. She quickly became popular in her class, both from who her parents are and showing her talent during training. She was surprised to see Kawaki in her class, and noticed a change in his behaviour, including an apparent interest in Kae Yukiwari, a princess who was an exchange student. She offered him advice on how to befriend her, and later, while spying on her father and Kawaki, discovered that his presence in the Academy was for a secret mission to protect Kae.

The next day, Himawari revealed to Kawaki her knowledge of his mission, and promised not to tell anyone. She offered to help him, but he refused. When Kawaki had to attend Kae's tea party for his mission, Himawari insisted on teaching him proper party etiquette. During the party, Himawari occasionally covered up Kawaki's social awkwardness, and bonded with Kae over having leaders for fathers. When Kae's cake was served, Kawaki caused a commotion to stop her from eating it, knocking over the tables. After excusing himself, Himawari followed him, and discovered his actions were due to the mission. Realising what Kawaki smelled in the cake was just mustard instead of poison, they deduced Osuka Kamakura was behind it, but Himawari wanted proof before confronting her about it. They questioned Batora about where the cake was stored, and noticing a narrow open window, Kawaki asked Himawari to get to Kae before he returned. Himawari revealed that someone had put mustard in the cake, and Kawaki arrived, having heard a full confession from Neon Asakusa, which implicated Osuka. Kae scolded her for abusing Neon, and everyone was pleased by her genuine self. The party resumed, everyone eating the taiyaki Kawaki brought. After the party, Himawari got Kawaki to admit she helped his mission, and he agreed to continue letting her assist him despite his reservations due to not wanting to put Himawari in danger.

When Team 7 taught her class as special instructors, an exercise of theirs caused a dispute that divided the class, which she warned Boruto about. After their homeroom teacher sorted it out, the class attended her cherry blossom viewing party and picnic. Days later, Himawari was part of a group of students who wanted to investigate the Academy at night to learn about the Seven Mysteries associated with it. Himawari plotted their route, and was one of the few students not to abandon it until the end. While she believed the mysteries were real at first, at one point she activated her Byakugan and discovered that Kawaki and Batora were behind them, though she kept quiet about it, glad for Kae's enjoyment of it. Kawaki later deduced her knowledge of his involvement. During a practical lesson, she was placed in a team with Kae and Sōsha, both she and Sōsha picking Kae for leader. Himawari looked after Kae during the lesson for Kawaki, and only lost track of her when Konashi asked to meet Kae away from everyone to ask for her advice. Himawari found her, but the two were attacked by a flame bear. Hana distracted the bear, allowing them to escape, and Himawari informed Kawaki of the development. Himawari's team ended up having the best performance at the end of the day. She was sad that she couldn't help Kawaki, but he pointed out she did protect Kae.

While making an effort to befriend Osuka, both of them were kidnapped by Oppo and Teru under Aniki's orders. While they only wanted to ransom Osuka to her celebrity parents, Aniki thought they could make a nice profit selling Himawari to enemies of the Seventh Hokage. Himawari remained calm throughout it all, and later listed as Osuka thought her mother wouldn't pay her ransom. She listed to Oppo and Teru's circumstances, and assured them that they wouldn't face capital punishment if they apologised. After they fell asleep, Himawari convinced Osuka to attempt an escape. Osuka tied their legs, while Himawari tried to fight off Aniki. He began choking her, but Kawaki arrived in time to save her, and defeated Aniki. After their arrest, Himawari checked in on Oppo and Teru, stressing that their concern for her was a positive change in their nature, and they promised her to have a fresh start after their sentence. She witnessed Hibari and Osuka's reconciliation, after which Osuka apologised for her attitude and Hibari invited everyone for pudding.

When her class had to put on a play about the Sannin, Himawari was cast as her grandfather, the Fourth Hokage. To better sell their performance, Osuka told everyone to bring a prop forehead protector. When Himawari forgot hers, Kawaki offered her his real one, only for her to warn him that it could expose him as a real shinobi. They were spotted by Eiki. Later, Sōsha asked her and Kawaki about the rumour he was a shinobi, but they dodged the question and went to check on the stage. During a rehearsal, Eiki's struggle to get Kawaki's forehead protector as proof ended up damaging the set. Himawari convinced Kawaki to reach out to Eiki, and everyone worked together to repair it. Later, Himawari stayed behind to help Kawaki find his missing protector, only for Osuka to return it. After she left, Eiki approached them to apologise again, and showed them the anonymous note he received telling him Kawaki was a shinobi. They wonder who could have left the note, and realised someone wanted Kawaki away from Kae. The day of the festival, Himawari asked Kawaki about him checking on Kae, but he claimed he was mistaken. When everyone had to stay put to deal with a terrorist threat, Kawaki asked Himawari to keep an eye on Kae while he went to help Eiki disarm an explosive tag circuit. Several smoke bombs went off, but Himawari activated her Byakugan, managing to push the assassin away from Kae. She took her outside, but the assassin followed them. Kawaki arrived in time to save them.

Following the terrorist attack, Himawari visited Hana, who was injured, in the hospital. She was interviews by the police, and later convinced Kawaki to keep protecting Kae despite being dismissed from his mission. Asking Eiki for help, they determined where the assassin might have been during the festival, and checked on Sōsha's photos to look for anyone suspicious. She pointed out Batora to Kawaki, who claimed wouldn't be able to attend. Rushing to Kae's mansion, they arrived in time to protect Kae from the assassin, who had injured Batora. She stayed with Kae and Batora while Kawaki fought the assassin, who ended up committing suicide. Batora explained that he was investigating the mastermind behind the assassination plot. The following day, Himawari apologised to Eiki for leaving him behind. Later, with the mission to protect Kae officially over, Himawari expected Kawaki to no longer be going to the Academy with her. To her joy, Kawaki still decided to attend. During which, Himawari joined her class in welcoming back Hana to teach. Later, Himawari noticed how concerned Kawaki still was. He noted that the assassin gave up too easily, even prepared early for it. They decided to investigate more, asking Kae to hang out at her mansion to look for clues.

Hana arranged for her class to undergo survival training on an uninhabited island. However, upon arriving, their food supplies went missing, and Kikuchiyo was injured by a trap, lending credence to rumours of killer missing-nin on the island. Himawari joined Osuka and Neon in looking for food. When they heard something rustling in the trees, they had Neon check it with her drone, but it got damaged. They informed everyone about it, so everyone searched to recover the drone. At night, Kawaki shared his suspicious of Kae still being targeted, and asked Himawari about the damage to the drone. Himawari thought the drone was too damaged for the height from which it fell, and its blades seemed to be cleanly cut. She suggested checking the recorded footage, so they asked Neon about it. Having watched it, Kawaki pulled her aside, and pointed out the flower petals on the corner of the screen, which implicated Hana. They rushed to her and Kae, who were looking for a flower arrangement Kae made, which Himawari found discarded and destroyed. Exposed, Hana ran off with Kae, Himawari certain it must be an impostor. Hana taunted them that the students' only value to her was as a cover for her mission. Taking Kae to a bridge, Hana seemingly stabbed her, shocking Himawari and Kawaki.

Hana burned the bridge, separating them. When the rest of the class arrived, Kawaki informing them of Hana's actions. Himawari questioned why bother killing Kae in front of witnesses, and realised she might be alive as a hostage. She attempted to locate them with her Byakugan, but was too exhausted from the fight. The class was able to cooperate and get close enough to where Hana might have hidden Kae. Kawaki revealed himself a shinobi, telling everyone to stay back, but Himawari reminded him she was his partner. She and Kawaki arrived just in time to protect Kae from an attack by Hana. Hana explained the nature of her dual personality, and attacked them with her Fire Release. Himawari was concerned that properly fighting back would hurt Hana, but Kawaki stressed they couldn't hold back in saving themselves and Kae. Kawaki feigned behind hit with Himawari used a shadow clone, and landed a hit on Hana, setting her up for a Gentle Fist attack by Himawari, though Hana dodged it. Hana created a paper barrier to obscure herself and her attacks, but Kawaki reminded her that she could see through it with her Byakugan, encouraging her. Kawaki protected her from Hana's attacks as she locked into her position, and opening a hole in the barrier though which Kawaki could attack, defeating Hana. While Hana was confident she stalled enough for her allies to arrive, Sai arrived with the class instead, informing her of their arrest by Anbu. Himawari joined the class in calling for Teacher Hana to overpower the exhausted Assassin Hana, succeeding. With Kae needing to return home, the class performed the Sannin play, and later saw Kae off at the train station. Later Himawari's parents noted how engrossed she was in the Academy, despite her still not being sure if she wanted to be a shinobi.

 Code's Assault Arc 

Himawari celebrated a proper welcome dinner party for Kawaki with her family. Upon noticing that her fixed vase still stood in the middle of the dining table, Kawaki suggested that she use the new one bought for her. Instead, Himawari noted that she chose to keep the vase as it has become more precious to her. After Kawaki tried out the forehead protector that Boruto loaned him, Himawari said that it looked good on Kawaki and if he did not feel convinced, he could also place it around his neck.

When she learned that Boruto and Kawaki had ventured outside the village and were fighting an enemy, Himawari was concerned about them, and was assured by her father he'd get them home. Hinata attempted to join them, but Naruto stressed that if something happened, she needed to be there to take care of Himawari.

 Omnipotence Arc 

When Boruto was called in for his first mission in a long time, Himawari watched their mother concerned about him not coming back this time, despite him trying to assuage her fears. After he left, Himawari said she could help Boruto if she became a shinobi, and asked if it would make her worry more instead.

After buying bread and tea for her mother, Himawari was approached by Daemon, who felt an intensity coming from her, sparking an interest to fight her. When Boruto caught up to them and pulled him off of her, he explained Himawari wasn't a shinobi and didn't know how to fight, confusing him a bit. Boruto disapproved when he thought Daemon's interest in her was a crush. Himawari later arrived home, only to find it being investigated. Noticing the broken picture frame, she became worried over her parents' sudden disappearance. Later, like most of the world, Himawari's memories of Boruto and Kawaki were swapped.

 New Era: Part II 
In the following years, with Naruto and Hinata believed to have been killed by Boruto, he became a missing-nin. At the same time, as Himawari continued to believe Kawaki was her natural brother, she would try to remain close to him as her "only" family. While the boy would look after Himawari, he refused to let her refer to him as her brother. Despite the lies and swapped memories, Himawari, still having a subconscious love for Boruto, she refused to believe that Boruto could have actually killed her parents, and that they were still alive. To which, Himawari decided to become a full-fledged shinobi and committed herself to grow strong, believing that Boruto would need her help.

Despite her orphan status, at her own request, Himawari chose to stay alone at the Uzumaki residence doing all the household chores. She feels that her parents will return someday, so she tries to protect their home.V Jump July 2025

 Boruto's Return Arc 

Three years later, while having a sparring session with Team 10, Code attacked the village, looking for Boruto. He unleashed his Claw Grimes. Himawari joined Team 10 to defend the village. When one of the grimes attacked Himawari, Kawaki arrived to strike it down. Himawari thanked him, but he complained about her calling him "big brother" despite his previous requests not to.

After the grimes were defeated, Himawari joined Team 10 in facing Boruto and Code, who was already being confronted by Kawaki. After Boruto was able to do subdue Code, he manifested another grime. While Kawaki quickly struck it down, Code used it to teleport away. Shikadai noted that Code could still be in the village. As Team 10 left to search, Himawari stayed back in concern for Kawaki. He told her to leave while he dealt with Boruto, which she reluctantly agreed. 

When Jura and Hidari invaded Konoha, Himawari and Team 10 mobilised. The invaders found them, Jura confused by the presence of tailed beast chakra in her, believing he had been tracking Naruto. Deciding that Himawari was who they needed to move forward, the sentient God Trees engaged the genin. After Jura instantly unleashed a powerful Tailed Beast Ball, Team 10 decided to retreat with Himawari, deciding that the enemies wouldn't launch such powerful attacks within Himawari's presence. While flying away on Inojin's Super Beast Imitating Drawing, she offered to go solo so her friends wouldn't get hurt. Suddenly, Himawari found herself within her mental plane, approached by a miniature cub version of Kurama. While Himawari was confused by this, she instantly recognised who the fox was.

As Kurama introduced itself and explained the situation, Himawari merely welcomed the fox, impressing Kurama. It also revealed to Himawari's compatibility to the fox's power is even greater than her father's was. As Himawari regained consciousness, Jura caught up to Himawari and forced them to the ground. Trying to access Kurama's power, Himawari attacked Jura, only to be easily blocked and captured. Inojin tried to save Himawari, but was impaled by Jura's Wood Release. The sight of her maimed friend enraged Himawari enough to access her newfound power and break free.

She turns her attention to Inojin, freeing him from his impalement and quickly heals him. She tells her friends to take Inojin to safety, determined to face Jura alone so not to endanger them. After they leave, Himawari quickly surprises Jura, overwhelming him with sheer might, even matching the God Tree's Tailed Beast Ball with her own. However, Jura takes the battle more seriously and quickly begins wearing Himawari down. As the repeated healing against Jura's assault ultimately exhausts her into unconsciousness, Boruto appears and teleports with her to also help Sarada.

As Boruto turned his attention to Hidari, he asked Konohamaru to look after Himawari, who ultimately handed the task to Nishi so he could help against Hidari. After Hidari was defeated, Boruto was shot down by Jura, using the opening to retrieve Hidari's Thorn Soul Bulb. As Himawari awoke, she quickly used her healing powers to mend Sarada's injuries. She then went to aid Boruto, but was held off by Kawaki, first allowing Konohamaru to restrain Boruto as a wanted criminal. 

As Inojin was taken to the hospital, Himawari joined him. She was relieved to hear from Sakura that Inojin would be fine.

 Matsuri and Ryū Arc 

After Team 7 successfully retrieved the Thornsoul Bulb of Matsuri, Himawari joined her friends as the bulb was inserted into Moegi's tree prison, it instantly shattered to safely free Moegi. Soon after, it was learned that Moegi would make a full recovery. Later, Himawari began training with Kurama within her mental realm. The fox told Himawari how she must learn to apply proper control in her chakra for her fighting style, noting that her unique compatibility with Kurama actually makes her more akin to an actual tailed beast.

 Mamushi Arc 

Himawari was visited at her home by Inojin as he delivered her favorite rare honey that he found for her. As he departed, she eagerly thanked him for the gift, noting that it was usually sold out whenever she tried to find it.

Days later, Shikamaru contacted Himawari, along with a several other Konoha-nin who accepted Boruto as an ally through Inojin's Mind Body Transmission Formation for a secret joint mission to deal with Mamushi who had come to the village for Ada. The Eighth Hokage explained the situation and the nature of the Human God Tree's Division ability. 

As Inojin kept the team connected and Shikamaru coordinated everyone, Himawari joined Shikadai and Chōchō to intercept several Mamushis. Himawari joined Chōchō in striking the threats down while Shikadai restrained them with his shadow techniques. As the Mamushis began multiplying into the hundreds, Shikamaru decided to use his backup plan: Lead Mamushi to Ada. This would inevitably make all the Mamushis, with their diminished intelligenc, join together, where the Konoha team could work with Daemon to defeat the Human God Tree and his Divisions.

As Boruto lead the Divisions, they soon saw Ada and took after her. Once close enough, Daemon and the Konoha team began their counterassault, soon getting the hundreds of Mamushis down to under 50. While their plan to wipe them remainder out in one assault failed when Sarada fainted from overusing her Mangekyō Sharingan. The remaining Mamushis, now filled with survival instinct, multiplied into the thousands.

As the Mamushis continued their relentless pursuit of Ada, Himawari rushed to heal Sarada. While stopping the blood lose and healing the blood vessels, she was unsure how much of Sarada's vision was still intact. Suddenly, Injoin was summoned to the field. With it deduced that the Divisions shared a hive mind, Inojin transferred his mind into a Mamushi, subsequently taking control of all the Mamushis. He directed killing intent on Daemon so he would reflect it back on the Mamushis and destroy their eyes, the only means for Mamushi to continue dividing. Because of the Mind Body Switch Technique, Inojin's eyes also were destroyed, which Himawari quickly healed. Following this, all the Mamushis collapsed and disintegrated.

With Mamushi defeated, Himawari turned her attention back on Inojin, relieved when he awoke with his eyes restored.

 Trivia 
 The name  means "sunflower". When reversed, the first two kanji spell , which can also be read "Hinata," making her name a reference to both her mother and the Hyūga clan.
 "Mawari" is also a reference to the spiral theme in Naruto's name, as "mawari" is the Japanese word for "rotation" (回り). 
 Himawari and Boruto were the only known descendants of the Hyūga clan who initially did not possess the Byakugan. However, according to Masashi Kishimoto, he intended to give them the Byakugan, but forgot to before releasing chapter 700.Article on cinemacafe (Japanese) This was essentially corrected in the Zai no Sho one-shot where Himawari awakened her Byakugan. This resulted in her being only one of two characters to have a Byakugan that isn't made immediately apparent by the white, pupilless eye(s) while inactive. The other is Mukai Kohinata, a Konoha Anbu introduced in Itachi Shinden: Book of Bright Light.
 While born into the Uzumaki clan, Himawari and her brother are also recognised as legitimate members of the Hyūga clan due to their direct bloodline from their mother.
 When accessing her initial jinchūriki form, Himawari's hair waves about in nine locks akin to tails, much like her late grandmother and a former Nine-Tails jinchūriki, Kushina Uzumaki, when she is angry.
 She is the only known jinchūriki whose tailed beast is sealed into her without the use of a sealing formula.

 Quotes 
 (To Boruto) "Big brother~… Are you playing hide and seek with me~? Are you here…? Hehehehehe."The Day Naruto Became Hokage, page 20
 (To her mother) "Next time maybe we can come together with big brother!"Naruto chapter 700, page 4