Title: Hippo Boss
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Hippo_Boss
-----------------------

is a giant hippopotamus that resides on the Island Turtle. He is noted to be one of the four fiercest animals to reside there.

 Background 
According to Condor, Hippo Boss is trapped in a four-way lovers spat with King, Chūji and Don over the affections of Armadiko. Whenever the four are together, they immediately start fighting believing themselves to be the most suitable partner for Armadiko.

 Personality 
Hippo Boss is a very hard-headed individual who will not back down from a challenge as noted by Condor who states that he would not back down from the challenge over Armadiko's affections even though he feared King.

 Appearance 
Hippo Boss resembles a regular hippo. He had a large scar running down the bridge of his nose down to his snout. When first seen, he and the other hippos are dressed in suits with him wearing a white one instead of black, with a purple shirt underneath and a gold chain around his neck giving him the overall appearance of a Yakuza gangster.

 Part II 
 Fourth Shinobi World War: Countdown 

At the time of the recruitment of all the animals on the island by Naruto Uzumaki, Hippo Boss was seen fighting Don and Chūji. As King joins the fray, Hippo Boss and the other are easily defeated by the gorilla. However, when Armadiko arrives and tells them that she had fallen in love with Naruto, the four animals band together and declare that they are going to beat him to death. This leads to Hippo Boss chasing after Naruto across the island. Later, sulking and somewhat beaten up, Hippo Boss and the other join the line entering the temple. Seeing Armadiko cosy up to Naruto, they look on in jealousy before quickly looking away as Naruto asks them if they want to fight again.

Later outraged when Naruto declares that he was going to start the ecological survey which required that he see the animals' genitalia in order to know their sexes, Hippo Boss and the others voice their dissent when Naruto states that he wanted to know whether or not Armadiko was female because of the kanji pattern for male on its armour. Soon after this, tremors are felt on the island and the animals are then thrown into the air after the Island Turtle is flipped over. Saved by Yamato's quick thinking, Hippo Boss and the others are shocked when they see that an unconscious Armadiko is actually male. The four are then seen commiserating the revelation.