Title: Hishaku
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Hishaku
-----------------------

was a young sailor who dreamed of becoming a captain of his own ship one day. 

 Background 
During his time as a sailor, he, along with his captain and other ship members were killed by the Giant Corpse Crab.

 Personality 
Hishaku was an honourable and devoted person, never resting until he had avenged his fallen crew-mates by killing the Skeleton Crab that wiped them out. His spirit also kept the ship he once served on in good condition while he was waiting to kill the crab. He also thought very highly of his captain.

 Appearance 
He had shoulder-length brown hair, thick eyebrows and light brown eyes. He wore a white sailor suit, with a blue collar and red kerchief along with a blue and white hat. He also carried a broom with worn down bristles that his captain had given to him.

 Abilities 
Hishaku was extremely skilled in methods of cleaning, such as sweeping and pegging sheets to ropes to dry, and in a form cleaning he and his crew used in which the cleaner taps the head of the broom in rhythm off the ground between sweeps.

 Part II 
 Paradise Life on a Boat 
While at sea, Naruto, Guy, Aoba and the other Konoha shinobi encountered his ship believing it at first to be a ghost ship. After Naruto helped him with his chores using a few shadow clones, he explained all the phenomena to them and his desire to become a captain one day. After encountering the Giant Corpse Crab at sea, Hishaku told them the story of how it had killed his crew-mates and begged them to defeat the beast. While Naruto clashed with the beast, Hishaku used the ship as a battering ram of sorts to give Naruto an opening to attack it with the Rasengan. After the beast is defeated, he thanks Naruto and reveals that he was actually a spirit that could not rest as he disappears. He later meets up with his deceased crew mates that tell him that they could not pass on until he was resting in peace. Together, they begin to celebrate the defeat of the monster that had claimed their lives.