Title: Hoheto Hyūga
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Hoheto_Hyūga
-----------------------

is a shinobi from Konohagakure's Hyūga clan.

 Personality 
Hoheto is a very calm and composed person who is also very focused during combat.

 Appearance 
Like all members of the Hyūga clan, he possesses featureless white eyes. He has brown hair which he styles in a top-knot, and wears the standard Konoha-nin uniform, with the Allied Shinobi Forces' forehead protector. He also has very prominent creases under his eyes.

 Abilities 

As a member of the Hyūga clan, Hoheto possesses the Byakugan, which grants him near 360° of vision, as well as the ability to see through objects amongst other things.

 Part II 
 Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation 

During the Fourth Shinobi World War, Hoheto was assigned to the Surprise Attack Division under Kankurō's command. After they had arrived into enemy territory and set up camp, they soon encounter an injured Muta Aburame. Realising that Muta was acting strangely, he activated his Byakugan and discovered that Deidara's explosive clay had replaced the kikaichū which should have been in Muta's jar. He alerted everyone to this fact, which allowed Ittan to react in time to take protective-evasive action and lower the part of the earth they stood on. 

As the two ambush squads clashed, Hoheto and Tango reached to Tokuma and Ranka just as he they had been freed from Sasori's control, and carried Tokuma to Kiri to be healed. Taking up the rear guard along with Tango, he later warns everyone that Deidara had turned Shin into a bomb as well in time for them to take evasive action.

Later, he and his division encountered back up for the Surprise Attack and Diversion Platoon. When they tried to flee from it, they were hit with Ibuse's Poison Mist and succumbed to its paralysing effects. They are, however, rescued by the samurai of the Fifth Division who carried them to the medical unit for treatment.

 Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax 

Keeping an eye on Deidara and the other sealed shinobi, Hoheto witnessed as the Impure World Resurrection was released.

 Trivia 
 Hoheto might come from the first seven syllables of the Iroha: I ro ha ni ho he to.
 During his début in the anime, Hoheto was erroneously depicted with black eyes. This was fixed in subsequent depictions.