Title: Honoka
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Honoka
-----------------------

was a kunoichi working with the researchers on a remote island.

 Background 
While researchers worked on the Ultimate Summoning Beast, Honoka was assigned to restrain the beast using her sealing techniques. However, at some point in time the beast got too powerful for her technique to restrain and it got loose. The researchers called for her to do something as the beast began to kill them. Eventually, she was the only one left, and when her sealing technique failed to restrain the beast, she called out for help, though there was no one to hear her while she was killed.

 Personality 
Because she was only seen as a soul, and thus, unable to speak, above all, indicates she was a caring girl. She also demonstrated to be level-headed during her lifetime, as she showed no fright when the Ultimate Summoning Beast was attacking the Summoning Island. She was shown to have a cheerful demeanour, as seen in the picture in her room.

 Appearance 

Honoka had dark eyes and long, straight red hair which she wore with a white band. She also wore a purple, sleeveless kimono blouse with yellow trimmings held close by a traditional obi with a long, streaming bow tied to it, mesh armour underneath it and a short white skirt. She seemed to prefer going barefoot.

 Abilities 

Honoka had some aptitude for fūinjutsu as she was assigned to restrain the Ultimate Summoning Beast. She could use a sealing technique that caused the sealing formula to form into chains to restrain her target.

 Part II 
 Paradise Life on a Boat 
With her soul unable to find rest, Honoka roamed the island as a spirit waiting for an opportunity to fulfil her duty. As the Konoha shinobi came to the island to save Guy, Aoba saw her and chases her where she leads him to the recorded research information left behind by the scientists. After this, she guides him to the Ultimate Summoning Beast before it was awakened. After the shinobi and some of the other animals engage in battle with the beast, Honoka manages to restrain the beast long enough for Naruto Uzumaki to attack it with the Wind Release: Rasenshuriken. With her duty fulfilled, her soul was able to move on.

 Trivia 
 Given her red hair, skill in sealing techniques, the similarity between her fūinjutsu and the Adamantine Sealing Chains technique, and the history of the Uzumaki clan, Honoka was suspected to be a member of the clan. A book in an old abandoned house on the island even mentions finding a survivor of a "certain clan of ninja".

pt-br:Honoka