Title: Human Path (character)
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Human_Path_(character)
-----------------------

This man was a shinobi of Takigakure. Following his death, he became the Human Path of the Six Paths of Pain. 

 Background 
On the verge of the Second Shinobi World War, he encountered Jiraiya during his journey to find his disciple. After dying years later, his corpse was used by Nagato to channel the power of the Human Path in his Six Paths of Pain.

 Personality 
In the anime, he was a level-headed ninja who believed that all he could do to try and achieve peace was to teach the next generation to survive the battles with other ninja until it came.

 Appearance 

He was an extremely tall, slender man with long, pale-blue hair that parted at his shoulders, green eyes and a pale complexion. He wore a blue suit underneath a dark-blue Takigakure flak jacket and his village's forehead protector.

When his corpse was used as the Human Path, like all of the Six Paths, his long hair was dyed orange and had multiple piercings, including a diagonal bar through its nose, two circular studs in a vertical row on each of its cheeks, two studs placed horizontally on its chin, and a stud on each of its shoulders near its neck. The diagonal nose piercing makes it the only Pain with asymmetrical facial piercings. As a mark of Nagato's control, the Rinnegan appeared in its eyes. Additionally, owing to the man’s height when alive, this body was the tallest of the Six Paths.

 Legacy 

As part of the Six Paths of Pain, the Human Path is used for a number of different purposes over the years: all six Paths are used to overthrow and kill Hanzō; when Jiraiya infiltrates Amegakure in order to find out more about Akatsuki, the Human Path fights him and ultimately contributes to his death; in the anime, the Human Path assists in the capture of the Six-Tails; it participates during Pain's Assault, and like the other Paths it is defeated by Naruto Uzumaki.

 In Other Media 
 Video Games 

 Trivia 
 His Naruto Mobile profile states that in life he was an instructor in Takigakure, teaching children how to survive during war, later killing many Konoha-nin during the village's invasion.