Title: Ibuse
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Ibuse
-----------------------

was a venomous salamander and Hanzō's signature summon. He was large enough for his summoner to stand on top of his head and when battling alongside Ibuse, Hanzō was powerful enough to fight, and eventually, overpower all three of the Sannin.

 Background 
Ibuse took part in Hanzō's fight with Jiraiya, Orochimaru and Tsunade.Naruto chapter 369, pages 11-12 He has also fought against Chiyo numerous times, alongside Hanzō.Naruto chapter 531, page 6

 Appearance 
Ibuse is a giant brown salamander with a lighter coloured underside, and seemingly no eyes.

 Abilities 
Ibuse was a powerful summon, shown from his participation in combat against several powerful shinobi and emerging unharmed. In the anime, Ibuse has shown a great amount of raw strength, being capable of easily toppling trees with a single leg.Naruto: Shippūden episode 272

 Poison 

Ibuse was able to release a Poison Mist from his mouth, which was capable of making the entirety of a victim's body numb just moments after inhalation and may eventually prove fatal, although these effects can be counteracted with the correct antidote.Naruto chapter 530, pages 15-16 The poison must first be generated and then stored for a total of five minutes within Ibuse's body before it can be expelled again.

Ibuse was also capable of concealing himself and navigating underground. He could then resurface beneath Hanzō's enemies and swallow them, trapping them in his mouth until they have succumbed to the fatal effects of the poison.Naruto chapter 531, page 16

 Part II 
 Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation 

While pursuing the Surprise Attack Division, Hanzō summoned Ibuse, who immediately exhaled a large quantity of poison in order to immobilise the fleeing shinobi. Hanzō then leaped off of Ibuse to finish them off but they are saved by a group of samurai. Chiyo then divulged to Kankurō and the samurai that Ibuse's poison needed at least five minutes to replenish. Because of this, Hanzō ordered him to hide underground. He later emerged beneath Mifune, swallowing him in an attempt to kill the samurai; however, Mifune slashed through Ibuse's head and escaped, presumably killing him in the process.

 Trivia 
 Ibuse is named after the Japanese author Masuji Ibuse, who penned the book Salamander and Other Stories.
 Despite initially portrayed as being green in colour, during Ibuse's later appearance in the anime, he is depicted as being a brown colour.Naruto: Shippūden episode 272