Title: Ibushi
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Ibushi
-----------------------

was the main antagonist of Naruto: Uzumaki Chronicles 2. He was part of the Shirogane Clan, a clan that uses puppets called the Puppet Walkers.

 Background 
His prime goal, along with the Shirogane clan, was to resurrect the clan's ultimate weapon, the Master Puppet, a living and sentient weapon with the power to destroy the Five Great Shinobi Countries. However, the Shirogane clan sealed away the Master Puppet, due to his self-awareness in the Spirit Orbs, which they hid in each Five Great Nation. Ibushi and the other members were unaware of the true secret of the Master Puppet and tried to resurrect it anyway to reform his clan. However, the Spirit Orbs he collected started to possess him and the Master Puppet used him as his tool to find the remaining Spirit Orbs and bring back himself.

 Appearance 
Ibushi was an elderly man with pale skin and long white hair tied in a spread ponytail behind his back. He had a small white moustache and goatee and a few visible wrinkles on his face, and black bags under his eyes. As with the rest of the Shirogane clan, he wore a purple onmyōji–like outfit that had the Shirogane clan symbol at the front, holding it together was a dark red sash wrapped around his outfit, a dark green scroll, carried on his lower back, and wore fade purple pants tucked inside bandages on his lower legs with shinobi sandals.

 Abilities 
Ibushi, like other members of his clan, was proficient in the use of puppets.

 Plot Overview 
Ibushi's puppet appeared in Konoha and fights with Naruto, Chōji, and Kakashi.

When Naruto and Kakashi came to save Sakura, he used her to gather her chakra to revive the Master Puppet. However, Naruto exchanged to switch in order to save Sakura. He managed to summon the Master Puppet, but he is killed by Kakashi's Lightning Cutter. However, the Master Puppet takes control of Naruto's body before Sakura uses a genjutsu to release Naruto from its control. The Master Puppet is invincible at first and manages to injure Kakashi, but after Naruto manages to disable it with the Rasengan, the Master Puppet is destroyed for once and for all by Naruto, Neji, and Shikamaru. Before Naruto and the two destroyed the Master Puppet, he was killed by Kakashi's Lightning Cutter although he was reincarnated somehow.

 Trivia 
  literally means "fumigation".

pt-br:Ibushi