Title: Ichikishimahime
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Ichikishimahime
-----------------------

is an inhabitant of the Ryūchi Cave.

 Personality 
Ichikishimahime appears to be more playful than her comrades, floating carefree in the air and spinning around while talking to Boruto about wanting to play with him. Like the other snakes, she has a more malevolent side and, as per her own admission, prefers to eat chakra that is weak and on the verge of disappearing. She claims herself to be honest.

As her test forces the participant to use their mind in a direct manner, (compared Togarihime's trial to resistant temptation) it quickly chips away at their willpower and stamina. This supports her claim of honesty, as she does not bother to distract or misdirect Boruto during the trial; though she does taunt him when he takes breaks to think.

 Appearance 
Although appearing to be one, Ichikishimahime is not a human. When disguised as such, she has fair skin and dark hair that is tied into two buns on either side of her head. She wears a sleeveless white and blue robe, white sandals, and has a pearl bracelet on her right arm. She also dons a golden tiara and blue tomoe-shaped earrings. She also has red eyeshadow.

 Abilities 
Ichikishimahime is capable of a levitation and eating another's chakra. She is also capable of transforming into a human-like form, upon which she can reveal snake-like features. She can cast a genjutsu that puts her opponent in a cave with multiple coloured gems and a wall with holes that match the shapes of those gems, with the genjutsu being breakable only if the victim fills the wall with the proper gems.

 New Era 
 Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc 

After passing Tagorihime's trial, Boruto was separated from his friends and soon met Ichikishimahime. She stated that she was only interested in Boruto, and hence only wanted his chakra. Her trial involved putting her opponent into a genjutsu wherein they appear to be in a cave, and must put coloured gemstones of various shapes into holes in a boulder in order to break free. Upon completion of her trial, she commented that Boruto was difficult to eat before disappearing. Ichikishimahime later watched Boruto and the others leave to find Garaga.

 Trivia 
 Her name is likely based off of Ichikishima-hime-no-mikoto (市杵島姫命), a Shinto name for Benzaiten. It is also the name of one of three goddesses enshrined at Munakata Taisha.

pt-br:Ichikishimahime