Title: Ichi
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Ichi
-----------------------

was an antagonist that appeared in Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire. He was a shinobi and one of Hiruko's three followers, along with Ni and San. 

Personality
Ichi was very overconfident in his abilities. He would talk down to and mock his opponents during battle. Like his comrades, he would not hesitate in using the Chimera Technique to merge with others, even if it meant distorting his own body.

 Appearance 
Ichi had light-coloured eyes and brown hair. He was a tall, gaunt man that greatly resembled San, with the exception that he only had a single violet-coloured rectangular mark on his forehead, his bangs on his left side, and that while Ichi wore his cloak on the right side of his shoulder and straps from the left shoulder going down, San wore them the opposite direction. He had a mark on his back that was the same as the one in Hiruko's left palm. It is unclear if he and San were related.

 Abilities 

Ichi had considerable skill in taijutsu, being able to keep up with Team Guy. He also utilised double-headed snakes in combat, due to the Chimera Technique. Using said snakes, Ichi could use the Summoning Technique, augment his arms, form nets and fire powerful projectiles. 

Ichi was noted to have larger-than-normal chakra reserves. He was also quite durable, being able to survive Neji and Rock Lee's combined Revolving Heaven and Front Lotus techniques head on.

 Plot Overview 
Ichi was sent by Hiruko to stop anyone from interfering with Kakashi Hatake's arrival. He then fought Team Guy and was defeated by Rock Lee's and Neji's combo attack. While down, he was summoned by San, who was absorbed along with Ni to become a giant chimera beast. The Konoha 11, except for Naruto and Sakura, battled the beast and managed to restrain it, until it was summoned by Hiruko. They all met again and the Konoha 11 defeated it by combining many of their attacks, thus killing him.

 In Other Media 
 Video Games 

Trivia
 means "one"; likewise, his partners' names mean "two" and "three".

pt-br:Ichi