Title: Iggy
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Iggy
-----------------------

is a citizen of the Land of Water.

 Background 
During his childhood, Iggy made one friend with a boy named Banna because the latter was being picked on due to his appearance.

 Personality  
Iggy seemed to be a mean, self-centred and somewhat cruel individual readily attack his friend when he got caught by the Konoha shinobi. He is also somewhat of a coward, having to wrestle greatly with the decision to save his best friend after he was captured even though he bragged to others that he was a great shinobi.

 Appearance 
Iggy has a short, green hair, brown eyes and a pointed chin. His hair also framed the sides of his face in a similar manner to sideburns. He usually wears a long-sleeved blue outfit with a flap on the front and the back and gold trimmings, a pair of white gloves, sandals, baggy pants that was tapered off by bandages and a hat giving him the overall look of a bellhop. While dressed in his ninja outfit he retains the same pants but wears a jacket over a mesh shirt with elbow guards and a pair of black gloves. He also carried a sword on his back, wore an unmarked forehead protector around his head and carried a shuriken holster.

 Abilities 
Though not much is known of his abilities, he was seemingly proficient enough in kenjutsu to wield one in battle. He has also shown some aptitude at ambush tactics, being able to successfully track and use kunai with explosive tags attached against targets and even managed to extract Banna safely from his captors.

 Part II 
 Paradise Life on a Boat 
After meeting up with Naruto, Guy, Aoba and Yamato who had just defeated Banna as a criminal who was posing as "Naruto Uzumaki", Iggy informs them that he was a shinobi and an officer of the law telling them that he would take Banna into custody. After the Konoha shinobi leave, however, this is uncovered as a ruse perpetrated by the two who are actually in cohorts. As Iggy curses Banna for getting caught revealing that with the upcoming war, he wanted to gain fame by defeating Naruto who was now regarded as a hero of Konoha. Banna sacrifices himself to save Iggy's life when a group of mercenary ninja capture him, believing him to be the real Naruto. Struggling with what he should do, Iggy goes to the Konoha shinobi telling them the truth. After Naruto tells him about the value of friendship, Iggy goes out to find his friend and save him. The two are later saved by the Konoha shinobi that come the their aid. Afterwards, Iggy tells them that he would return to his village and make an honest living, giving up his dream to become a shinobi altogether.