Title: Ikkyū Madoka
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Ikkyū_Madoka
-----------------------

is the current daimyō of the Land of Fire.

 Personality 
Ikkyū is a very business oriented man. His focus on work tends to make him ignore his son, Tentō leaving him in the care of servants and keeping him occupied through lavished gifts. However, he still loves his son and cares for his well-being, as he was furious at learning of Tentō's kidnapping and deeply worried for his well-being. While he loves his son and was willing to pay the money ransom, he was conflicted with the other demand of releasing all the prisoners of Hōzuki Castle, acknowledging the dangers of having many violent criminals loose upon the world is not worth the safety of one child, even if it was his son.Boruto chapter 13 At the same time, he showed a very problematic approach, deciding to gather the money as a means to stall for time. 

As Tentō noted, Ikkyū has great admiration for shinobi.Boruto chapter 12 He is also shown a very casual and humble man over all, as he does not care about formality, especially with those he considers friends, as he showed with Naruto. Unlike other daimyō, who often prioritise either their own land or themselves, Ikkyū shares Naruto's genuine desire for peace and prosperity, and wholeheartedly aided Naruto and Shikamaru Nara on preventing a possible Fifth Shinobi World War between Iwagakure with Kirigakure against the Land of Flowers with Kumogakure after persuading Land of Earth's daimyō, Danjō, to cancel their plan on taking over the Land of Flowers for its soil.Shikamaru Shinden novel

 Appearance 
Ikkyū appears to be a middle-aged man with grey hair, slicked back and stylised sideburns as well as a goatee. His ears are pierced and he has several rings on his fingers. He wears a dark, full-body suit with a simple white kimono over it and a short fur-collared haori and a hat. He also travels with a walking cane.

 New Era: Part I 
 School Trip Arc 

In the anime, despite the long end of the Fourth Shinobi World War, there was still civil unrest in other countries like the Land of Waves, prompting Ikkyū to work with these villages to build more safety measures.

 Mujina Bandits Arc 

left|
Ikkyū visited Konohagakure to meet with the Seventh Hokage. After finishing a call he was approached by his son Tentō who wanted to show him the new card he had purchased. Ikkyū, however, apologised to his son stating that he had to leave before he was late for the conference with the Hokage to discuss financial matters. With that, he left him in Yamaoka's care. A few days later, he learned to his horror that Tentō was kidnapped by the Mujina Bandits. After learning of their demands for Tentō's safe return being 500 million ryō and the immediate release of all criminals in Hōzuki Castle, Ikkyū deduced that with how seamless the abduction was, they must have had spies with his entourage. Desperate to get his son back but all wanting to stall on the ransom demands, he decided to play it safe and begin getting the money together.

Ultimately, Tentō was saved by the genin of Team Konohamaru, who also captured the entire Mujina Bandits. Ikkyū quickly went to see his son, overjoyed to see that he was alright. As Tentō talked about what he learned from Boruto and how he insisted to become a strong man to support his father, Ikkyū was left so moved. Later, Ikkyū and his delegation left Konohagakure, with Team Konohamaru coming to see them off.

 Shikamaru Shinden: A Cloud Dancing in Forlorn Falling Petals 

About ten days after his meeting with Naruto, Ikkyū secretly met with the Hokage and Shikamaru Nara at his mansion in the Land of Fire.

 New Era: Part II 
 Matsuri and Ryū Arc 

Three years later, Ikkyū contacted Homura Mitokado and Koharu Utatane regarding Konoha's failure in apprehending Boruto during his numerous appearances in the village. He stated they quickly recapture him, or those responsible will be brought to task should there be failure.

 Post Matsuri and Ryū Arc 
Concerns about Shikamaru as Acting-Eighth Hokage following the fugitive Boruto's escape from custody and Shikamaru issuing a mission to the Land of Sand against the Human God Trees. To which, a meeting was held to determine Shikamaru's continued status as village leader. Ikkyū sent his chief advisor Kobu, as his representative for the meeting.

 Trivia 
 Ikkyū's name literally means , while Madoka as a surname can mean .