Title: Inori
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Inori
-----------------------

was a follower of Boro's cult.

 Background 
Inori had developed an illness to which she could not find or even afford treatment for. At some point, Boro manipulated her into joining his cult, with the promise of the Ōtsutsuki Clan saving her from her misfortune by casting the Infinite Tsukuyomi.

 Appearance 
Inori had blue long hair and violet eyes. She wore a white robe of Boro's cult.

 New Era 
 Kawaki Arc 

When a small village was plagued by Boro, Inori and his other followers approached the villagers with the intention to heal and recruit them to their cult. Afterwards, Inori informed Boro that the new followers were performing the purification ritual, with the latter leaving the rest to her.

After one of his sermons, Boro introduced a group of children who had recently joined to Inori, also sharing a similar background as her. Suddenly, her older brother arrived to save her from Boro's deceit. Despite having found a doctor to treat her, Inori only asked her brother to leave. Inori's brother attacked Boro, but to no avail thanks to his "indestructible body granted by the gods". While her brother was in shock that his fatal attack was unsuccessful, Boro asked Inori to procure clothes for the children while he escorted her brother out, killing him instead after she left.

Some time later, after Boro's death, Konohamaru Sarutobi and Sai were given a tour of the facility by Inori. Later, Tsuzumi was pursued by the Konoha shinobi when he had attempted to contact Boro. When he ordered the other followers to apprehend them, Konohamaru exposed Boro's deceit to them, revealing he was responsible for the plagues and that they were all being used by him for Kara's purposes. The revelation fell on deaf ears as Shirabe reminded the cult the reason that they had joined, which Inori had applauded. Suddenly, Delta attacked the facility in order to destroy Boro's Space-Time Gate from being used by outsiders. Still adamant in her beliefs, Inori remained with the ones still loyal and was disintegrated by Delta.

 Trivia 
  means "prayer".