Title: Isari Funato
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Isari_Funato
-----------------------

was a pirate from the Land of Water.

 Background 

After his father returned from another raid, Araumi also brought with him a young boy named Tenma who Asaumi decided to adopt. Isari happily welcomed him to the family. From a young age, they would train arduously together under their father's watch. He and Tenma would often tease their younger brother, Ikada, for not having any aptitude for battle or wielding the Funato power. Later, he watched Ikada's rite of passage ceremony to determine his inherited power. As Ikada was hurled into the ocean as raging storm took place, his Funato abilities manifested, causing a massive wave that save him from drowning, leaving Isari and his other siblings speechless. At some point, Isari was given the marlin-bone harpoon by his father.

After their father was captured by Kirigakure, Ikada made a decision to leave the clan and find his own path. Isari was strongly against this, but Seiren convinced him to let Ikada do as he pleased.

 Personality 
Isari disliked quiet waters, preferring a rough, violent waves as he feels it is the true nature of water. Composed by nature, he was very alert and methodical. He was constantly thinking ahead and considering how best to handle situations as it evolved. He believed in taking his time and carefully handling matters. In battle, he had shown a rather sadistic side, seeing his enemies as fishing targets. He was very loyal to his family, losing his normally composed nature when anything bad should happen to them. Like the rest of his clan, Isari's greatest desire was to see it prosper. However, he was also more rational than the rest of his family. Upon seeing so many loses in his clan, he was willing to compromise and negotiate for peace instead of fighting for supremacy, putting the safety of the clan above their desire for vengeance when the situation became dire enough, even negotiating it in secret.

 Appearance 
Isari was a fairly tall individual. He had tan skin and silver eyes with straight, shoulder-length blond hair. His most noticeable trait were three gill-like markings on both sides of his neck. He wore white robes over a blue shirt and grey pants with black gloves.

 Abilities 

Isari was a capable fighter, considered the pride of the Funato Clan.Boruto episode 236 Wielding a sentient marlin-bone harpoon, he was able to battle Kagura Karatachi, a prodigious swordsman, to a stalemate. He had considerable raw strength, able to easily break free from being bound in rope.Boruto episode 251 He was proficient in Water Release, requiring no pre-existing water to create prisons or powerful waves to detain or attack his enemies.

 New Era 
 Great Sea Battle of Kirigakure Arc 

Isari sailed to Kirigakure, arriving by night with a fleet of ships, and discussed his partnership with a governor who backed him up. The next day, he watched as an airship crashed following the unveiling of the Shinonome 1 power station from a sea cliff.

Using the chaos as a diversion, Isari and his team broke into prison to free his father. There, they faced off against Kagura and Boruto Uzumaki, the latter of which his spear took quite the liking to. After succeeding in rescuing Araumi, they returned to the rest of their clan, who had used the chaos to secure control of several islands in the Land of Water.

Later, as Isari was enjoying a celebratory feast for his father's return, Tenma arrived, revealing that his ship and Chakra Cannon were destroyed by the joined efforts of Kiri and Konoha-nin. Isari deduced that it included the ninja he met in the prison. As Tenma vowed to hunt them down, Isari insisted that it was of no concern, as the Chakra Cannon already served its purpose to destroy the Land of Water's front-line base. Araumi agreed with his eldest son, convinced that they would win this war.

Later, Isari reported that the Mizukage had joined the front lines, the Funato Clan eagerly prepared for war. He informed his father that Seiren had went on ahead to take care of matters. Soon after, Isari joined Tenma and their main forces to face down the Mizukage. They were ordered to surrender, Isari smirked at the order. As the Kiri forces began repelling the Funato forces, Isari was pleased as their diversion plan was working perfectly.

As Tenma grew impatient with the stall tactic against Kirigakure's main forces while Seiren's unit attacked the defenceless village, Tenma voiced his desire to go directly after Chōjūrō. When he and Tenma received Funamushi's report that Seiren was injured and her unit was forced to stop their advance, Tenma's patience ran out. While Isari began devising a new plan, Tenma went behind his back and took a squad to attack and kill the Mizukage. Upon learning of Tenma's recklessness, Isari was very concerned. However, before he could act, he witnessed Tenma being struck down by the Mizukage and falling into the ocean. He gave the order to retreat as Kirigakure's fleet went on the offensive, and vowed revenge.

Upon returning to base, his father was furious at the news that Tenma was dead and the diversion failed. Blaming Isari for this setback, along with Seiren falling in battle, Araumi relieved Isari of command. He decided to put Seiren in command on the assault unit once she fully recovers while he took to the front-line, while Isari was ordered to stay in the base.

As Jibiki updated them on the clan's situation, Isari attempted to reason with Araumi, pointing out their lack of materials to repair the mobile fortress, and their lack of manpower to steal more, owing to them being spread thin along all fronts. Isari advocated for a retreat so they could regroup for another attack, which resulted in Araumi accusing him of becoming a coward during his imprisonment, who in turn said he knew nothing of what he and his siblings endured rebuilding the clan during that time. Araumi blamed him for the loss of half their fleet, Tenma's death, and Seiren's precarious condition. Upon learning of Funamushi's death, Isari confronted Ikada about his indecisiveness, revealing Seiren's faith in his power, and accused him of using his hope that Seiren will be all right as an excuse not to fight. That night, he spoke with Jibiki, and believing that Araumi is too consumed by hatred to make sound decisions, asked Jibiki to arrange a secret meeting with Kirigakure to negotiate a peace treaty between them.

left|
Arriving at Kirigakure, Isari and Jibiki were brought to the Mizukage's office, were he broke free from his restraints, intending to speak on equal terms. Isari made it clear he had no intention of conquering Kirigakure, that coexistence between them was possible, and that he opposed his father's ambition, unwilling to sacrifice more Funato to the cause. He claimed to have gathered the support of many who no longer wished to follow Araumi. Their negotiations were interrupted by a broadcast by Araumi, announcing an all-out attack. When Araumi mentioned even relatives wouldn't be spared if they sided against him, the Marlin Harpoon, by order of Araumi, came alive and stabbed Isari. He died lamenting he only wished to protect his clan.

 Trivia 
 His name is similar to the verb , which can also be translated as to look, hunt, or scavenge for something.