Title: Ise
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Ise
-----------------------

was a doctor and a citizen of Amegakure, where he lived in a small village with his son and wife.

 Background 

During the Second Shinobi World War, Ise and his wife Fusō were providing humanitarian aid. One night during the war, Ise and his family were hiding in their battle-damaged house when Konoha ninja broke in looking for food. Ise and his family tried to sneak away but when they were detected. Ise fought the ninja to give Nagato a chance to escape, but the Konoha ninja, assuming the couple were enemy ninja, attacked and quickly killed first Fusō and then the devastated Ise.Naruto chapter 445

Witnessing this, Nagato unknowingly awakened his Rinnegan, and he subsequently killed the two Konoha-nin. Nagato buried his parents before leaving to search for food. The death of his parents is the first great tragedy of his life, and in his eyes evidence that the peace Konoha preaches comes at the cost of others' lives.

 Personality 
As a doctor and a person willing to give aid in times of war, Ise was a very compassionate individual. Also, he loved his son very much, sacrificing his own life to allow Nagato to escape.

 Appearance 
Ise had short, black hair and wore a plain dark-beige shirt alongside black pants and sandals. Under his pants, he wore white bandages.

 Trivia 
  is the name of a Japanese province, city and bay. Like Fusō, Ise also shares his name with a Japanese battleship.
 Based on Obito's words, at least one of Nagato's parents is descended from the Uzumaki clan.Naruto chapter 510, page 17 A common trait of the clan is red hair. While it is unknown if either of Nagato's parents has red hair in the manga, in the anime, the hair of Ise's wife Fusō was red.Naruto: Shippūden episode 172
 Based on Black Zetsu's words about Nagato being of the Senju lineage, it's possible his father was a Senju descendent since his mother had red hair and was more likely to be of Uzumaki lineage.