Title: Itama Senju
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Itama_Senju
-----------------------

was a young shinobi from the Senju clan.

 Background 

Upon hearing the news of his brother Kawarama's death, a tearful Itama assembled alongside his father, and his remaining siblings Tobirama and Hashirama as the fallen were buried. After his father scolded him for crying — as shinobi were not to show emotions — Itama looked on horrified by the altercation between his father and his eldest brother. Later, while speaking to his brothers about seeking peace for the world, Itama voiced concern about what would happen to the retribution that should be sought for the death of their relatives. Tobirama admonished him for this way of thinking stating that the only way to achieve peace would be to repress feelings such as those.Naruto chapter 622, pages 7-11 

Some time later, Itama was also placed on the battlefield and on one occasion found himself surrounded by members of the Uchiha clan. He was subsequently killed by them.Naruto chapter 622, pages 12-13

 Personality 

Itama was a seemingly kind and soft-hearted boy by nature, witnessed as he openly mourned the passing of his fallen clansmen as well as his brother.Naruto chapter 622, page 7 As a child, Itama was also very impressionable as seen during a conversation he had with his brothers about bringing peace to the warring world, questioning what would become of the retribution on those who had killed their relatives.Naruto chapter 622, page 11

 Appearance 
Itama had a head of short, two-toned hair, with one side being black and the other half being white with matching eyebrows. He bore great resemblance to his siblings with his dark eyes, and he generally wore a simple pair of pin-striped pants, a dark-coloured shirt, and a short haori. While in battle, he wore armour typical of the era, and wrapped a piece of cloth around his forehead.

 Trivia 
  is Japanese word referring to the space between two wooden slats on a duckboard, a type of platform built to create a dry passage over muddy, or wet terrain.

 Quotes 
 (To Tobirama and Hashirama) "That's easy to say… but then who will take revenge for all the loved ones we've lost? They'd roll in their graves if we just let bygones be bygones…"