Title: Iwana (citizen)
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Iwana_(citizen)
-----------------------

is a citizen of the Land of Water.

 Background 
During his childhood, Iwana was close friends with Yamame. When Kagura Karatachi had moved to their village, Iwana had noticed he isolated himself from the other children, so he and Yamame approached the boy and befriended him.

 Personality 
He is a kind, friendly and positive guy. Iwana treats shinobi with respect and, realising that they are the hope for saving the village, refuses his food in their favour. He also keeps the memory of the deceased Kagura.

 Appearance 
Iwana is a short, chubby guy with short ash-violet hair and a similar shade of eyes. He wears a grey t-shirt with purple sleeves, pants, and sandals.

 Abilities 
He has skills as a carpenter and builder, being able to build barriers and fences with Yamame and Kyohō Fuefuki in a short time.

 New Era 
 Great Sea Battle of Kirigakure Arc 

Years after leaving the village, Kagura returned and was greeted by Iwana and Yamame. Kagura informed his childhood friends of the threat of the elite forces from the Funato clan, who would pass by their village on their way to Kirigakure. Iwana agreed to help his childhood friend and his allies to help defend the village. Later, Iwana noticed Kyohō Fuefuki cutting down trees by himself, both him and Yamame offered to help him in setting up the village defences. Impressed with his strength, Iwana suggested Kyōho should return to their village once the war with the Funato is over to do some work for them. After the Funato's attack, Iwana and Yamame made repairs on their village while still mourning for Kagura.

As the elite forces return for another attack, Iwana and Yamame hid with the other villagers while they both implored Boruto to avenge Kagura. After the Funato's second attack, Iwana and the other villagers rebuilt their village stronger than before. When an injured Funato soldier was brought back for interrogation, Iwana and the other villagers were against it, resentful of the Funato. He and Yamame asked Kyohō to stay and protect the village now that he had been pardoned, but he refused, saying he had to help Buntan against the Funato. When Team 7 returned from an ambush at Boruto, which involved Funamushi's son Kobuna, they remained in favour of fighting the Funato. Later, Iwana and Yamane informed the villagers on the upcoming clash between the Funato and Kirigakure.

 Trivia 
  refers to several species of fish from the Salvelinus genus, known as char (or charr) in English.