Title: Iō (medical-nin)
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Iō_(medical-nin)
-----------------------

is a medical-nin from Konohagakure.

 Personality 
Iō is a calm individual, often seen with a composed look, even when he is facing strong opponents.

 Appearance 
Iō has black eyes and brown hair covered by his forehead protector which he wears in a bandanna-style. He wears the standard attire of the Konoha-nin complete with flak jacket. While working on the Logistical Support and Medical Division compound he wears medical overalls to cover his attire.

 Abilities 
 Ninjutsu 

As a medical-nin, Iō has excellent chakra control with which he can perform medical ninjutsu. Battle-wise, Iō is a competent shinobi and is capable of using Earth Release, making use of techniques such as the Earth Release: Flying Thrown Stones to bombard targets with, delivering devastating blows with each shard of stone. He also has a great understanding for the use of sealing tags, as he was able to combine them with his Earth Release to help seal away reincarnated shinobi.

 Physical Prowess 
Iō is also physically strong, capable of lifting a giant boulder several times his size without difficulty. In case of close-range combat, he is skilled enough to fight a gifted kenjutsu user with just a kunai, although only for a short period. He is also very durable, as he could perform his sealing technique flawlessly even when injured.

 Part II 
 Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation 
During the Fourth Shinobi World War, Iō was assigned to the Logistic Support and medical Division. At a point in the war, the compound was attacked by three reincarnated shinobi, one of which was Hayate Gekkō, they stole the KIA scroll. Sukui made a team composed of Iō, Sakura Haruno, Yokaze, and Yūgao Uzuki to retrieve this scroll. When the team caught up to the opposition, Iō fought alongside his comrades and was successful in sealing away both the Sunagakure and Kumogakure-nin. However, his confrontation with Hayate ended with him being heavily wounded. Even though he was healed by Sakura, Iō was not able to continue on the mission and left the sealing of Hayate to his remaining comrades. Their mission ended in a success with all three shinobi being sealed away successfully.