Title: Jaggy
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Jaggy
-----------------------

was a stray wolf that was found and taken care of by Himawari Uzumaki.

 Personality 
While deemed as a dangerous creature, Jaggy was friendly with those who treated him with care and respect, such as Himawari, sniffing her hand after she fed him, and laying comfortably in front of her while she caressed his fur. While initially hostile towards Kawaki, snarling at him during their first meeting, Jaggy also grew to become comfortable around him.

Originally part of a pack of wolves, Jaggy realised that his white fur would cause predators to easily spot him and his kin, and willingly decided to abandon them to keep them safe, showing his loyalty towards his own kind, even when the pack confronted him over the "betrayal" later on.

 Appearance 
Jaggy was a large wolf with bright white fur. As noted by Himawari, Jaggy had jagged ears, hence his name, and his entire body was covered by scars, and Jaggy was described by Kawaki as being "ferocious" based on his appearance. Jaggy also had blue eyes.

 New Era 
 Kawaki Arc 

Jaggy used to be part of a large pack of wolves, but because his white fur caused the pack to be easily-sighted by other predators, Jaggy willingly decided to abandon and live the rest of his life in solitude. However, his lonely life took a heavy toll on him, causing Jaggy to become malnourished and weak, and at some point, Jaggy was found by Himawari Uzumaki, who decided to care for the ill wolf, and Jaggy gained great trust for Himawari, being the only human he felt comfortable around.

Eventually, Himawari's escapes to feed Jaggy were discovered by Kawaki, who decided to join her to find out what she was up to. Kawaki noticed Jaggy has several scars on him, and thought Jaggy should get his own food, but Himawari convinced him to help her get food. They speculated on why Jaggy was the way he was, and Kawaki related to the wolf. When they returned, other wolves were snarling at Jaggy, but left as they approached.

The next day, Kawaki and Himawari left together again, and he helped her get food for Jaggy. When they arrived at the site, Jaggy was nowhere to be seen, but they noticed bear prints coming out of Jaggy's cave. They followed them deep into the woods, where they found Jaggy dead, killed by the bear. Himawari mourned his death. She and Kawaki buried Jaggy and created a memorial site for him, promising to come visit him once in a while.

 Trivia 
 "Giza" comes from , which is an onomatopoeic word that indicates something having serrated or jagged edges.