Title: Jibiki
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Jibiki
-----------------------

is a pirate from the Funato clan.

 Personality 
Jibiki dislikes quiet waters, preferring a rough, violent sea over a quiet, peaceful one. He is very committed by nature, pushing himself well into exhaustion to complete his mission. He believed that any attempts to negotiate with the enemies would be futile, and reported to Araumi in hopes of persuading Isari to stop his secret plan to barter with the Mizukage. Nevertheless, Jibiki is loyal to Isari enough to accompany him on the negotiations, and blamed himself for not stopping his superior when Araumi killed him for the perceived treason.

 Appearance 
Jibiki is a fairly tall man with a pale complexion and narrow, grey eyes and small eyebrows. He has long, straight dark blue hair with flat bangs and a lock of hair hanging against the left side of his face and tied with an anchor-shaped clip. He wears a white poncho with a light purple cowl around his neck and grey pants.

 Abilities 
Jibiki has a proficiency in Water Release, able to create a flowing stream of water to detect and locate various targets. He is a Sensor Type, having his skills in it noted as being unmatched by Isari.

 New Era 
 Great Sea Battle of Kirigakure Arc 

left|
Jibiki arrived at Kirigakure by night in Isari's fleet. During an organised diversion by exploding a series of blimps at the Kirigakure's presentation of their new generators, Jibiki joined his clan to break into prison to free their clan leader. They succeeded in rescuing Araumi, and returned to their clan, who had used the chaos to take control of several Land of Water islands.

Later, Jibiki joined Isari and Tenma Funato with their main forces to face down the Mizukage's forces. As the Kiri forces began repelling the Funato forces, Isari was pleased as their diversion plan was working perfectly. Jibiki asked if they should retreat, but Isari declined, feeling they should play it out longer.

When report of Seiren's defeat reached the Funato fleet, Isari began working on a new plan. As he did, Jibiki alerted him that Tenma went to attack the Kirigakure fleet with a small unit, which resulted in Tenma's death against the Mizukage, and a Funato retreat at sea.

Back at the Funato island, after learning of Funamushi's death and Seiren's own passing, Isari confided to Jibiki he had lost trust in Araumi making sound decisions for the clan, believing him to be too consumed by hatred. He requested Jibiki to reach out to Kirigakure in secret to negotiate a peace treaty between them. Later, Jibiki secretly informed Araumi about Isari attempting to negotiate a peace treaty with the Sixth Mizukage and thought that they needed to stop Isari from doing so, but Araumi only responded to let Isari do what he wanted.

Arriving at Kirigakure, Jibiki and Isari were brought to Chōjūrō bound. Isari broke free of his restraints to negotiate with Chōjūrō as an equal, but allowed Jibiki to remain in custody as a show of good faith. As they talked, Araumi broadcast the announcement of an all-out attack against Kirigakure. Chōjūrō questioned Isari, but Jibiki vouched for him. When Araumi mentioned even relatives wouldn't be spared if they stood against him, the Marlin Harpoon came alive and skewered Isari, killing him. Jibiki mourned Isari's death, and blamed himself for not stopping his attempt to make peace with Kirigakure. In the aftermath of the war, Jibki was later imprisoned, still distraught over Isari's death.

 Trivia 
 Jibiki's name refers to "seine fishing", a type of net-fishing.
 In Boruto episode 233, Jibiki is credited as .Boruto episode 233 credits