Title: Jura
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Jura
-----------------------

is the leader of the evolved, sapient Human God Trees produced by Code's Ten-Tails. Unlike the other Human God Trees who are based upon individuals trapped in trees, he is the direct incarnation of the Tailed Beast.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 14, page 11

 Background 
After Code successfully had Amado Sanzu remove his limiters, Code used his Claw Marks to fragment Kara's Ten-Tails into Claw Grimes to create his own personal army. Unbeknownst to Code, the remains of the Ten-Tails eventually turned into Jura.

 Personality 
Jura assumes leadership of the group of self-aware Human God Trees and offers them guidance, advice, and encouragement, as well as generally speaking on their behalf. He has a calm and casual demeanour, rarely losing his composure. A philosophical and outspoken man, Jura believes that people are slaves to their emotions and can easily lose their direction with new developments. However, he soon comes to be fascinated by them, noting their aid for one's growth. He is also very observant and analytical, able to quickly deduce the mechanics behind an opponent's technique. Likewise, while still finding the concept of emotions strange, he is able to read a person's demeanour to see their true nature. 

He appears very invested in learning and understand the world, both how human think and general flow of events. This also makes him quite a bookworm, enjoying reading various books to learn as much as he can, and likewise, makes a point of researching people he views as important. Also, he treasures libraries, not wanting them to be harmed. While by nature amoral and indifferent to how his actions affect others, he is not by nature confrontational preferring to avoid battling people and offering them a chance to leave him to his own goals. Likewise, he is ethical enough to pay money for obtaining things he desires. He also developed a fondness for sweets leisurely strolls. However, once he does engage in battle, he is utterly merciless. Noticeably, he seems to respect people who show drive and commitment to their own views. Likewise, he overall is very respectful in the way he talks to others and enjoys conversations to better learn. 

His feelings are stimulated by thoughts of Naruto Uzumaki, who he chooses as the target he wishes to devour in the belief it will let him grow to better understand his own existance. He believes the knowledge of the Thorn Soul Bulb is too vital for outsiders like Boruto to know of, and would make it a priority to eliminate such people to preserve his team's agenda, only sparing Boruto after realising that the young man only knew due to an accomplice as opposed to finding the knowledge on his own.

 Appearance 

Jura takes the appearance of an adult man with chiselled features and lacks eyebrows and hair. Like the other self-aware Human God Trees he wears clothing made from Claw Marks, including a long, black, studded cloak with a tall collar bearing his personal emblem and turquoise lining, black studded finger cots on his middle fingers, and a black studded beret on his head styled to resemble a coiffed patch of hair, along with tattered black pants. Though he otherwise appears human, he possesses a pair of purple Rinnegan and tridactyl feet similar to those of the Claw Grimes with the front toes clad in studded bands that resemble shoes.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 8, page 1 He also has several magatama around his stomach and a Rinnegan-looking symbol on his back.

 Abilities 

Being the  Ten-Tails' direct incarnation,Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 14, page 11 born from the Ōtsutsuki influence of Isshiki and Shibai,Boruto chapter 72, page 35Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 6, page 22Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 13, page 21 Jura is regarded as both a monster and the most dangerous Human God Tree,Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 11, page 33Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 13, pages 29 plus shows power well-above his own creator, Code.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 15, pages 22-24 He is confident in being able to devour the Seventh Hokage with the Nine-Tails' power, and likewise easily defeated Himawari Uzumaki with said power.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 11, page 22 Both Boruto and Kawaki believed that not even their combined Ōtsutsuki-raw might could defeat Jura.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 26, page 2-3 Even Koji Kashin, after seeing countless potential futures, stated that if Jura ever got serious, that no one on Earth would be able to stop him.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 16, page 31

 Shinjutsu 
Jura is able to casually levitate and fly.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 4, page 20 Having been created in part from the Claw Marks, Jura is able to generate and manipulate them himself. From this, he can travel through them and likewise pull targets near other marks to him. He is also seen sitting atop a black cube in his hideout that functions as a large claw mark. 

 Ninjutsu 

As the remnants of the Ten-Tails, Jura is connected to all the Human God Trees through shared senses.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 21, page 36 He can also sense the chakra of others and track them through it.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 8, page 38 He can instantly produce a Tailed Beast Ball from his eye, either massive in scale or tiny for specific attacks, either of which have tremendous destructive power.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 9, page 38 Likewise, he can produce a high-precision beam to snipe targets from a great distance, showing considerable aim with it.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 12, page 39-40 He is able to perform the Wood Release,Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 9, page 9 combining Earth and Water Release to produce wooden structures, including massive spikes that can ensnare or kill multiple targets in one move with ease.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 9, page 22 He can also manifest large tree branches that are capable of fusing with him to quickly heal and regenerate any damaged or missing body parts.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 24, pages 25-26

 Physical Prowess 
Jura has advanced hand-to-hand combat prowess and immense physical strength. He could shatter Kawaki's body modifications and launch Kawaki a significant distance away with a single strike each. With a single hand, he can casually break bones and disfigure a person. He is likewise very resilient. Even after being plowed clean through solid rock, he emerged unfazed. He also has incredible speed and reflexes, being able to react to Code's Claw Mark-surprise attack by swiftly dismembering his right hand. He has also demonstrated immense durability, being the first person to take the Rasengan: "Uzuhiko" without any damage, which previously wiped out a fellow Human God Tree, Hidari.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 22, pages 39-41 In addition, he is able to not only survive but function normally even if part of his head is impaled, though he did choose to heal the damage soon afterward.

 New Era: Part II 
 Boruto's Return Arc 

When Boruto followed Code to the dimension where he kept his Ten-Tails imprisoned, what remained of it suddenly disappeared. Moments later, a creature resembling Bug appeared and attacked Boruto, who explained that the creature was a Human God Tree, having evolved into a new form due to Code's modifications.

Jura appeared soon after along with two other evolved Human God Trees, Matsuri and Hidari, floating in the sky high above. While Boruto fought the others, he explained that they had gained self-awareness and were no longer driven purely by their innate instinct to consume all chakra.

Following Boruto and Code's retreat, Jura declared that their newly awakened curiosity was temporarily overwhelming their instinct to devour him, but that Boruto would not be able to escape his fate.

Jura later joined the other Human God Trees in their base beneath the roots of a giant tree, where they discussed their newly developing individual identities and the emotions stimulating them, which were producing cravings that they couldn't explain, with Jura desiring to eat Naruto Uzumaki. Jura suggested that they would be defined by their actions and urged the others follow their instincts and choose targets to devour, believing that it would enlighten them as to their true nature, praising them for their decisions.

Jura was fascinated by the books he read, understanding he lacked knowledge the more he learned. He decided to find Naruto, arriving though a mindless Claw Grime alongside Hidari. They easily killed the guards at the gate. Jura spent sometime at a bookstore, before having to fight Kawaki, uninterested in him. Jura believed he had sensed Naruto, having detected a tailed beast's chakra, but was confused to find who had sense was Himawari.

As Team 10 approached Jura, he took out his notebook to confirm Shikadai Nara as the Eighth Hokage's son. While it is believed that Jura is after Shikamaru, he explains how he was looking for Naruto through the Nine-Tails' chakra, only to be surprised by finding the trail leading to Himawari. Deciding to continue in this direction, Jura ensnared Himawari with his Wood Release. Team 10 quickly were able to free her. Jura offered to let the genin live if they give up Himawari, but they refused. As Shikadai tried to subdue Jura, the sentient Human God Tree launched a Tailed Beast Ball that narrowly missed its target when Chōchō Akimichi tackled him to launch it away.

Finding Jura too much a danger for the village, Team 10 flew away on Inojin Yamanaka's draws. Jura was impressed by the team's resolve. Quickly, Jura pursued and grounded them. As Himawari tried to defend her friends, she was effortlessly subdued, snapping her leg. He then consumed her within his Wood Release, eager to feed of her chakra. As Inojin tried to stop him, Jura impaled the boy. The sight of this infuriated Himawari, revealing herself to be the new Nine-Tails Jinchūriki by accessing Kurama's power to heal her leg and break free.

As Jura was surprised by Himawari's sudden new power, the girl healed Inojin, telling her friends to retreat. Himawari quickly attacked Jura, showing remarkably quick improvement and equally increased might as she pummeled him across the landscape. Intrigued by this development, even factoring in her access to the Nine-Tails' power, this prompted Jura to get more serious to test his own power. The Human God Tree quickly began overpowering Himawari and steadily wore her down even with her healing powers. As she finally fainted, Boruto appeared and teleported away with his sister.

Boruto arrived to face Hidari. With the help of other Konoha-nin, they were able to destroy Hidari. Upon which, Boruto located Hidari's Thorn Soul Bulb. As Boruto began to explain the nature of the bulb, Jura shot down Boruto from the distance, annoyed that he missed any vital points. As the bulb levitated to Jura's hands, he determined that with Boruto's knowledge of it, Boruto was a threat that needed to be killed. As he prepares to finish the job, Mamushi appears. He informs him that recent investigations revealed that Boruto has an accomplice who is giving the ninja intimate knowledge about the Human God Trees. Mamushi notices Hidari's Thorn Soul Bulb, reminding Jura that they must act quickly to revive Hidari with it before it rots. Jura wonders if destiny is on Boruto's side.

Back at the lair, after reviving Hidari, the entire group join up to witness the birth of a new sentient Human God Tree, giving it the name of Ryū. As the new sentient Human God Tree adjusted to his new identity, he noticed Code hiding and captured him. The lone Kara member demanded that the Human God Trees go after Kawaki and Boruto to produce Chakra Fruit for him to consume. As Jura made it clear that Code is not in charge anymore, even considering letting the Human God Trees eat the fruit, Code angrily attacked Jura through the Claw Marks on him. Jura however easily countered and blew off Code's right hand. He offered Code a counter proposal: killed Boruto and his unknown accomplice and Jura will give Code a Chakra Fruit. While furious at this rebellion, Code accepted and left. As Ryū asked if he could kill Code when they were done with him, Jura agreed but asked who Ryū's true target is. Ryū replied that it was Gaara.

 Matsuri and Ryū Arc 

Soon after, Jura peacefully returned to Konoha to purchase books. While the Sensor Division instantly detected him, Shikamaru told everyone to stand down and leave Jura alone, heeding Koji's warning to not provoke Jura. Upon returning to his lair, Jura voiced to Hidari and Mamushi his views on how the sentient God Trees are not that dissimilar to humans as both can easily be swayed by scattered emotions like love and attachment, believing that it can be a key weakness for their defeat.

As Ryū and Matsuri were sent to the Land of Wind to search for Boruto, Matsuri ended up facing Konohamaru Sarutobi. Desperate to save his former sensei, Boruto arrived to strike down Matsuri. This alerted Jura to Boruto's location. He quickly emerged from a Claw Grime near Team 7 and their Suna-nin allies. Ignoring them, despite Ryū also being destroyed, Jura quickly turns his attention on Boruto. When his Tailed Beast Beam failed to hit Boruto, he quickly rushed after the missing-nin. He was caught by surprise from Boruto's teleporting assault and forced to land. As he applauded Boruto's new level of skill, he began asking Boruto questions like the nature of love and how he had such deep knowledge of the Human God Trees. As Boruto refused to answer, Jura began assaulting him with several Wood Release attacks, turning the terrain against him. Ultimately, Boruto was captured by one construct. As Jura prepared to kill Boruto with Sasuke's sword, Boruto revealed a fake-out, letting himself be captured to unleash his Rasengan: "Uzuhiko" and teleport to hit the Human God Tree. While initially immobilized by the attack, Jura quickly deduced the mechanics behind it and was able to neutralize it.

As Boruto's injuries from the Wood Release began slowing him down, Jura began bombarding the teenager with Tail Beast Bombs. Boruto was able to close in on Jura and slice off a foot, but the Human God Tree quickly pummeled Boruto into submission. As he prepared to finish off Boruto with another sniper beam, his eye was gorged from behind by Kawaki. As the infuriated Jura turned his attention on Kawaki, the new enemy proved very dangerous, overpowering Jura with several impalements of his black rods. Jura wondered where this newfound boost in power came from.

As Jura continued his assault, Kawaki was decisively able to counter each attack and continue wearing the God Tree down. Despite the brutalising Jura endured, he proceeded to stop fighting and casually take out his notes on Kawaki, voicing his confusion to Kawaki's new might. Noting how Himawari recently showed a similar boost in power after she witnessed Jura strike down Inojin, Jura concluded that these sudden jumps in power came from feelings of love. Kawaki ignored Jura's monologue and proceeded to blast him. Jura however defended himself with his Wood Release constructs, then using various vines to quickly repair his recent damage. Calmly looking down on Kawaki, Jura voiced his suspicion that Naruto was still alive, convinced after seeing Kawaki's reaction. 

As Jura explained how he desired to devour Naruto in the quest to understand love through him, Boruto approached Kawaki, ready to teleport away with him. Before they did Kawaki applauded Jura's instincts on Naruto and vowed to kill Jura himself. After the two ninja vanished, Jura returned to his base to talk with Hidari.

 Mamushi Arc 

As Jura finished a novel, it caused him to cry. He admitted to his fellow God Trees that recent experiences, both personally and from Matsuri, have given him a deeper understanding of love and the various other emotions that can come from it, but still desired to know more. As Mamushi declared his desire to consume Ada came from wanting her advanced genes, to help the Human God Trees prosper, Jura agreed it would help to better understand love.

As the days progressed, Jura began making regular appearances in Konoha, either to buy books or eat sweets. Despite the stress and fear his presence caused the villagers, the Eighth Hokage made sure that no one in the village provoke him, fearing the Human God Tree's retaliation would destroy the entire village.

 Trivia 
  roughly translates to "ten demon" and seems to be a portmanteau of "Ten-Tails" and  which means "warring demon" or "carnage" and is short for ashura.
 It may also refer to the Ten Rakshasi that appear in certain Buddhist myths and Japanese folk stories.
 Boruto speculates that Code's White Kāma, which came from Isshiki Ōtsutsuki, may have played a role in the Human God Tree's unique evolution.