Title: Jōmae Village Head
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Jōmae_Village_Head
-----------------------

He was the leader of the Jōmae Village.

 Personality 
He had shown to be quite arrogant and sure of himself, as seen when he told Team 7 not to underestimate the Jōmae-nin right before he supposedly killed himself in an explosion. This act also showed that he was a very convicted and loyal ninja to his home village, not willing to let any information regarding his own village come into the hands of Konoha. He was also shown to be serious and kept his priorities in check during combat fleeing under confrontation, while also ordering Hanare to deliver the intel she had gathered, safely to the village.

 Appearance 
He was a short elderly man with medium length grey hair, which he kept in a ponytail and a long hanging moustache of matching colour. His body was of a slim build and his face had a somewhat narrow jawline. He was always shown wearing a conical straw hat and hand guards similar in style to those worn by Jiraiya. When outside of his village, he was seen wearing a beige cloak and carrying a shakujō, which had a lock hanging from the two lower rings at its top.

 Abilities 
Judging from his position, he could be presumed to be a highly intelligent ninja as leader of his village, capable of using information gathered by his subordinates in the best possible way.

Considering he opted to flee or commit suicide rather than face a squad of 3 genin, it can be presumed that he was physically weak. As shown how quickly Team 7 caught up with him, he is evidently not very fast either. 

 Part II 
 Past Arc: The Locus of Konoha 

He had been personally asked to train Hanare outside the village as a spy so she didn't have any information on the village itself. Years later, he ordered Hanare to spy on Konohagakure. He presumably killed himself with an explosion after getting cornered by Naruto Uzumaki, Sasuke Uchiha, and Sakura Haruno.

 Quotes 
 "Once a key is locked, not even death can open it."

pt-br:Líder da Vila Jōmae