Title: Jōseki
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Jōseki
-----------------------

is a Senior from Sunagakure.

 Background 
With the village believing Gaara, the jinchūriki of the One-Tail Shukaku was a failure, Jōseki noted that they needed to depend on the Fourth's development of new techniques and the trading of gold to keep their economy from crumbling. After making this announcement, he noted that they needed to deal with Gaara as well.Naruto chapter 547, page 5

 Personality 
As a member of the village's council, his main concern is that the village maintains peace and stability. He is also one of the few people to not accept Gaara, seeing him as nothing more than a container of Shukaku. Even when Gaara was captured by Akatsuki, he disagreed that Gaara be rescued and suggested a new Kazekage be appointed.Naruto chapter 266, pages 6-8 

 Appearance 
Jōseki's face was noticeably lined with deep tear troughs and ones running parallel to his nose. Attire wise he wore the standard uniform of the Sunagakure Seniors along with a turban. He also has black hair and dark-coloured eyes.

 Abilities 
As a member of the advisory council, he is most likely one of Sunagakure's wisest shinobi.

 Part I 
 Sunagakure Support Mission 
In the anime, Jōseki was present alongside the other councillors and Baki to discuss about the Four Celestial Symbols Men who invaded Sunagakure. They decided to send the Three Sand Siblings to deal with them and rescue Matsuri. However, it was ultimately part of his plan to lead Gaara right into the enemy so that he is no longer a threat to the village.

 Part II 
 Kazekage Rescue Mission 
When the Fifth Kazekage was abducted by Akatsuki, his foremost concern that the peacefulness within the village be maintained. He wasn't comfortable with Gaara's appointment to Kazekage from the beginning, seeing him as little more than a failed and highly dangerous experiment. When the Kazekage was kidnapped by the Akatsuki, he mused that it might have been for the best and wanted to quickly elect a new Kazekage, angering Kankurō.

 Five Kage Summit 
In the anime, after the Three Sand Siblings had returned to the village after the Kage Summit conference was over, he is seen in a meeting with them along with the other seniors discussing what happened at the Summit and the future actions of Sunagakure.

 Trivia 
 His name can mean , , or .