Title: Kabuto's Sensei
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Kabuto's_Sensei
-----------------------

He is a Konohagakure jōnin and the leader of Team Kabuto.

 Background 

Once a student of Orochimaru along with Anko Mitarashi and another unknown genin, his team entered Chūnin Exams together. During the second exam, they battled against Hayate Gekkō, Ibiki Morino and Tokara.Naruto chapter 599, page 4 He also made a brief appearance in Naruto: Shippūden episode 193, as part of the tactical division of protecting Konoha alongside Sabiru and other ninja.

 Appearance 

He has short, sandy-brown hair and dark eyes. He wore glasses along with the standard Konoha-nin inclusive of flak jacket, forehead protector and sandals. The shirt he wore underneath his flack jacket came all the way up to his chin. When he was a genin he wore a simple blue outfit with bandages around his ankles and arm-guards, along with a sash around his waist which was tied in the back.

 Part I 
 Chūnin Exams 

He was first seen alongside the other jōnin commanders as the Third Hokage instructed them on the next phase of the examinations, after his Team had passed the second exams and awaited instructions for the third.

 Konoha Crush 

He also made another appearance during the Konoha Crush where he cheered on his comrades after the display of their legendary teamwork.Naruto: Shippūden episode 239 He was later seen attending the Third's funeral, mourning his loss with the rest of the villagers.

 Part II 
 Akatsuki Suppression Mission 

In the anime, he was drafted as part of the Nijū Shōtai and he, and his team-mates went in search of Akatsuki members that had infiltrated the Land of Fire, at one of their known bases. They were however, unsuccessful in finding anyone at that location.

 Past Arc: The Locus of Konoha 

In the anime, he was seen cheering on Yamato who was using the Wood Release: Serial Pillar Houses Technique to help rebuild Konohagakure after Pain's assault.Naruto: Shippūden episode 180

 In Other Media 
 Movies 
 Naruto the Movie: Blood Prison 

He was also seen in amongst the villagers during Naruto Uzumaki's flashback to the members of the village when he was gathering natural energy to enter Sage Mode.

 Trivia 
 From his debut in the Chūnin Exams in the manga, he was not seen again until chapter 599 in a flashback of when he himself participated during the exams.
 In addition to being a former student of Orochimaru, he would later have his own team who were actually Orochimaru's spies. It is unknown however if he was unaware of this or he was also a spy himself.