Title: Kagura Karatachi
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Kagura_Karatachi
-----------------------

was a shinobi from Kirigakure, who worked as an aide to the Sixth Mizukage, and a special advisor of the village.Boruto episode 243  Striving to turn Kiri into a village that rivals Konohagakure, he became a prison warden so he could nurture people more.Boruto episode 233

 Background 

Being the grandson of Yagura, people kept their distance from him. As his safety couldn't be guaranteed, he was relocated to a small village outside of Kirigakure. There, he initially spent his time practising his kenjutsu on a tree, or pulling pranks about the village, often being spanked as a punishment. Eventually, the children began warming up to him and let him play with them.

Rather than struggle with becoming poor, he enrolled into the Kirigakure Academy to become a shinobi. In the Academy, Tsurushi Hachiya alongside a few other students viewed him as a human being. During their first combat training, Kagura killed many of his classmates after falling into a trance, resulting in him becoming afraid of wielding a sword again, as well as accepting he was truly the grandson of the Fourth Mizukage. During this time, Shizuma Hoshigaki took a great interest in him. Despite being attacked by Kagura and receiving a lasting scar on his chest, Shizuma applauded him, encouraging him to stay true to this nature for the coming era. Since then, Shizuma began watching over Kagura with earnest, working diligently to keep him safe.

Thirteen years after the Fourth Shinobi World War, Kagura was promoted to Chūnin. At some point, he became Chōjūrō's aide, and offered the chance at succeeding him as Mizukage, which Kagura declined. Chōjūrō also chose Kagura to become one of the Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist and inherit his sword Hiramekarei.

 Personality 
Kagura's goal was to make Kiri into a peaceful village.Weekly Shōnen Jump He was very selfless, willing to risk his life for the sake of others. As a child, to cope with is constant ostracising, he became mischievous, constantly pulling pranks. He was shown to be very friendly to others, even if they're from another village. He also acknowledged his village's questionable history and strove to make up for it. He was happy to meet the visiting class from Konoha. Kagura was also a fan of Kagemasa, evidenced by his ownership of extremely rare Kagemasa merchandise. Due to spending most of his early life as a ninja, he was relatively new to playing games, but was open to trying new activities nonetheless.

Friendly and cheerful as he was, he had many insecurities. Despite Chōjūrō's praise, Kagura felt that he didn't deserve to be the next shinobi to wield Hiramekarei, or eventually, becoming Mizukage. This stemmed mainly from his family ties to the Fourth Mizukage. Struggling to make friends because of that fact, he became very lonely and eager to break free from his grandfather's history. Kagura apparently had a subconscious bloodlust side to him, as once worked up too much in combat, he would go on a blind rampage. Because of this and the lives he unintentionally took, Kagura developed a strong PTSD, fearing to draw a blade of any kind. Even while using a wooden sword against Boruto Uzumaki in a sparring match, he was left visibly distressed from the brief exchange. 

After meeting Boruto and his friends, Kagura was glad to be treated as friends with them. Gradually, the group helped him to regain faith in himself. As Boruto, who desired to walk a path void of his Hokage heritage, insisted that Kagura can't live in the past, Kagura finally decided to accept the opportunity to join the Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist.

However, upon meeting up with Shizuma, who disputed everything that Kagura had come to believe, including the nobleness of the Fifth and Sixth Mizukage, Kagura reluctantly agreed to join Shizuma in his coup d'état, solemnly accepting his identity as the Fourth Mizukage's grandson. Once learning however that Shizuma's words were all lies, Kagura sought to make things right, regaining his self-worth and appreciation of Boruto's friendship. After which, determined to rediscover himself, he began training under Chōjūrō in the goal of overcoming his fear of drawing a sword. As Kagura continued to train himself, overcoming his fear of using blades, he came to believe that the economic development of his village, while also important, was being focused on too much. He felt that more care should be taken into aiding the individuals that make up the village, a belief stemming from Boruto's willingness to believe in his reformation since Shizuma influenced him.Boruto episode 235 He was forgiving of betrayal when it stemmed from misunderstanding.Boruto episode 242

 Appearance 
Kagura was a teenager of average height. He had a fair complexion with short, messy, grey hair that falls over the right side of his face and spiked up on the left his forehead, pink eyes and a marking with three points running down under his left eye. Overall, he bore a striking resemblance to his grandfather, Yagura. He was very handsome as nearly all the Konoha Academy female students immediately swooned for him.

He wore black pants, a striped purple shirt, a green long-sleeved vest with a high collar, and black gloves. He also wore a grey-strapped forehead protector under his bangs. He carried at his hip a wooden katana with a square hollow hilt. Attached to the top of the scabbard was a Kagemasa key-chain shaped like the movie-star's signature visors.

Later, while working as the warden of a Kiri prison, he wore a formal, short-sleeved blue shirt with yellow shoulder straps and blue pants with black gloves. He also stopped wearing his forehead protector. He also replaced his wooden sword for a proper metal one.

 Abilities 
Kagura was a genius shinobi who despite his young age has earned a reputation known across the shinobi world.Boruto episode 26 In the Academy, his prowess was shown to be especially high, swiftly defeating all his opponents in matches. As such, Chōjūrō wanted Kagura to eventually succeed him as Mizukage, a position reserved only for the strongest shinobi of their village. Later, his talents made him the warden of a top-level prison complex.

 Ninjutsu 
Kagura was proficient in Water Release, able to produce a strong shield without an existing water source. He likewise had advanced skill in Juinjutsu, able to apply a cursed seal on people to restrict certain actions and likewise could remove it at any given time.Boruto episode 244

 Kenjutsu 

Kagura was very advanced in kenjutsu, having shown great potential from the beginning of his academy career. Kagura effortlessly defeated Boruto and Tsurushi, on separate occasions. His skill led to Chōjūrō picking him to succeed his position in the Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist and inherit Hiramekarei. Wielding it, he was regarded as being capable of defeating the entire New Seven Ninja Swordsmen by himself.Boruto episode 28 With a normal steel blade, he could seamlessly cut through enemy techniques to free his allies.

 New Era 
 School Trip Arc 

When Shino Aburame's class comes to Kiri for a field trip, Kagura greets the foreigners and introduces himself as their guide for the day. Upon meeting Boruto, the two introduce themselves to each other. Guiding the class into the village's port town, Kagura informs the students of the business conducted in the tourist destination. During the tour, Kagura introduces the class to the Fifth and Sixth Mizukage. Afterwards, Kagura shows them the Academy, where Chōjūrō has him spar with Boruto. He swiftly defeats Boruto in a single skirmish, after which Kagura becomes visibly distraught.

After taking a break, Kagura takes the class to the Memorial Park, where they all pay their respects to the deceased. There, he speaks of the history of his village's Academy's ritual, and how the "Bloody Mist Village" was a thing of the past. Iwabee Yuino notes that his grandfather was killed by Yagura, and Kiri's history still effect the present, to which Kagura apologises for. The group are then approached by Tsurushi, who disrespects Kagura and the Academy class. As Tsurushi attempts to attack Boruto, Kagura intercepts his attack, before Iwabee scares off the delinquent group.

Later, Kagura learned that Denki Kaminarimon was kidnapped. As he and the Konoha students feared that telling the adults would end the field trip and possible ruin relationships between the two villages, the group went alone to save Denki. Once arriving at the pier, they learned that Tsurushi's gang was behind this. During the battle, Tsurushi revealed to the Konoha students Kagura's dark past. After defeating their enemies and saving Denki, to cheer up Kagura, the Konoha students invited him to play a card game with them. While Kagura enjoyed the game, he continued to lament about his past. Boruto however insisted that he can't let his family ties define him, as Boruto could relate to being compared to his famous Hokage father and grandfather. As a sign of friendship, Boruto decided to give Kagura his playing cards. Later, encouraged by Boruto's words and faith in him, Kagura requested to Chōjūro to take the test for the Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist position.

As Kagura began practicing with Hiramekarei and showed it off to Boruto, Shizuma appeared, insisting that he needed Kagura's strength to begin the "proper" change of the village to its former glory. While Kagura insisted that this path was wrong, Shizuma claimed that the noble actions of the Fifth and Sixth Mizukage were a façade, having resorted to assassination and such to silence all who opposed their pursuit of a more peaceful village. Boruto rejected the claims and attacked him, but was quickly stopped by Shizuma's five allies. Shizuma revealed that they were his personally made Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist, including himself and hopefully Kagura. Ultimately, between Shizuma poking at Kagura's bloodstained past, his debt to Shizuma, and the claims of misdeeds by the current Mizukage, Kagura reluctantly agreed to join Shizuma's coup d'état, on the condition that Boruto's life be spared. He then brought his new team to the gather the remaining blades of the Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist.

As Kagura's new team each took up a blade, Shizuma began explaining more of his plans, noting that he had allies within the ranks of the Water Daimyō and also will have Kagura become the new Mizukage, resuming the violent reign of the Fourth Mizukage. As Shizume led his team to begin their revolution, beginning with the destruction of the Kiri Memorial Stone, they were stopped by the timely arrival of the Sixth Mizukage, along with Boruto and Sarada. As the fight began, Kagura found himself facing off against Boruto. Shizuma continued to praise Kagura's violent efforts on the Konoha-nin. Mitsuki arrived, revealing proof that Shizuma was conspiring with the Land of Waves for his revolution. It was also revealed that the people Shizuma claimed to have been disappeared by the Mizukage were in fact killed by Shizuma himself for not backing his plans.

Horrified at what he learned, Kagura quickly stopped fighting, ashamed of his actions. Shizuma also admitted that Kagura was merely a pawn in his plan to test out the Seven Mist Swords, while viewing Kagura as a waste of the Fourth Mizukage's bloodline. Shizuma then unleashed a veil of red mist through Samehada, giving him a field advantage to absorb his enemies' chakra through their wounds. After Boruto and Mitsuki's team efforts defeated Shizuma, Samehada began absorbing the weakened and inexperienced Shizuma on its own. Wanting to make things right, Kagura attacked Shizuma with Hiramekarei, but soon found himself too exhausted to fight alone. Boruto then joined in, and the two ninja, each wielding half of Hiramekarei, managed to defeat and expel Samehada from Shizuma. With the rebellion stopped, Kagura was grateful to have become friends with Boruto.

Later, while seeing the Konoha class off, he chose to do it from afar as he was too ashamed to face Boruto after his mistakes. While not being punished like his former allies of the coup d'état, he soon began undergoing special training from Chōjūrō to overcome his insecurities with a sword. Realising that Kagura was still thinking about his mistakes, Chōjūrō insisted that if he apologises honestly to Boruto, he will be forgiven. Later, he sent a letter to Boruto explaining his feelings.

 Versus Momoshiki Arc 

With Chōjūrō departing the village to spectate the Chūnin Exams in Konohagakure, Kagura was left in charge of the village, and told the Mizukage to tell Boruto that he's looking forward to seeing him as a fellow chūnin next time they meet. He also has been training hard everyday to become Chōjūrō's successor.

 Kara Actuation Arc 

When learning of Kara, Konohagakure sent Rock Lee to inform Chōjūrō about it. Kagura was present to listen as well.

 Great Sea Battle of Kirigakure Arc 

Eventually, Kagura became an assistant answering directly to the Mizukage. Following Shizuma's escape from a state-of-the-art prison, Kagura chose to replace the warden who Shizuma killed. During a mission, Boruto was able to visit Kagura at his new position. They discussed Kiri's development, and Kagura showed him around the prison. As he was showing Boruto out, an airship related to his mission crashed. Kagura was notified of intruders, and along Boruto, they found detained guards, who informed him that the Funato Clan was responsible. They intercepted them after they freed Araumi, but Isari broke through Kagura's defence, allowing them to escape. He and Misuno updated each other on recent events.

Kagura wanted to help Team 7, but Chōjūrō couldn't spare the extra manpower. He handed him Hiramekarei, and allowed him to recruit Buntan Kurosuki, Hebiichigo, and Kyohō Fuefuki, who were branded with cursed seals that Kagura could remotely activate before being handed the blades they wielded as well. They were taken to Dotō Island on Taiki's ship. Upon arriving to help the Konoha Team 5, Kagura decided that only Sarada and Mitsuki would go ahead to spy on the situation. As tensions began for flare between Boruto and the work-release prisoners, Kagura admitted to his doubts in trusting them. However, he felt that given how they chose not to escape with Shizume, Kagura wanted to trust that they could change, like how Boruto helped save Kagura from a dark path. They were suddenly approached by a massive structure. Realising it was a fortress ship, Kagura instructed Boruto, Buntan, and Kawaki to investigate the rest remained behind to rendezvous with Mitsuki and Sarada.

After receiving updates from Sarada and Boruto, Kagura took Kyohō and Hebiichigo to the fortress, to aid in destroying its Chakra Cannon. He asked Taiki to ram their damaged boat at the fortress to create a distraction. They joined up with Boruto's group, but were attacked by Tenma Funato before deciding how to destroy the cannon. Hebiichigo was injured, and the sight of her blood sent Kyohō in a rage, attacking Tenma, Boruto, and Kawaki indiscriminately. Kagura knocked Kyohō out, taking up the fight against Tenma with Kawaki. After Boruto used the cannon to destroy the fortress, they escaped on a lifeboat, and were rescued by Sarada's group. They all headed back to Kirigakure.

The following morning, Kagura discovered Taiki had been murdered. Suspicion fell on Kyohō, who was found trying to clean blood off Kabutowari, and who had recently gone through a rage he had no memory of. Trusting his claim of innocence, Kabura partnered with Mitsuki to search the ship. A witness came forward with damning testimony, but Kawaki noticed inconsistencies in it, and already suspicious of how fast word of the murder had spread, set up a trap by faking Kyohō's death. This exposed Kobanza, who was chased to the engine room, where he killed himself to damage the ship's engine.

Eventually, they were discovered by master shipbuilder, Kajiki. Unable repair the engine, Kajiki instead towed the ship back to his port for proper repairs. The shipbuilder noted that he still expected payment for his services, which Kagura agreed to. There, Denki was eager to help with repairs, wanting to know as much as possible should more trouble happen to the ship. Joined by the Ninja Swordsmen and Sarada, Kagura went to contact Kirigakure. He reported the Ninja Swordsmen's valuable efforts in saving the captured citizens. He was also informed that with the Funato clan continued to expand their influence with more people joining them, Chōjūrō was forced to join the front-lines and Kagura might be called soon to join as well.

Later, Kagura approached Kawaki, recognising the influence Boruto had on Kawaki. He confided to Kawaki that he could relate to how Boruto helped him break free from his troubled past, hoping to do the same for others as a prison warden. Their conversation was cut short when Sarada delivered a message from Kirigakure. Much to his dismay, despite the swordsmen's earnest work on the mission, their sentencing would only be reduced by 3 years. He intended to appeal on their behalf. Later that night, he was attacked in his room by Hebiichigo, only to fall for his diversion in the bed as a precaution for any attacks. She revealed she overhead him talking about their meagre sentence reduction, and declared her fury at Kagura's empty promises before fleeing.

At night, the Funato Clan launched an attack on the island, with Funamushi targeting Kagura. Kagura admonished his mentality, and Funamushi in turn taunted him, mentioning that Seiren was likely to already have killed Boruto. Kagura overpowered him and left to look for Boruto, finding him in time to block a shot from Seiren's Ray Bow. He determined that Boruto's arm had its chakra flow disrupted, and explained Seiren's fighting style. She eventually landed a shot on him after changing her arrow's trajectory midair. Kagura warned Boruto not to come to his aid, as it would expose him to Seiren's shot. Boruto realised that the thunderstorm could interfere with Seiren's echolocation, and managed to rescue Kagura. The two collaborated, and were able to confirm her position, allowing Kagura to sneak up on her and strike her down. Unconscious, Seiren was rescued by Funamushi. By morning, the Funato attack had been repelled, and Kagura asked form the swordsmen' help in investigating it, looking past Hebiichigo's attack on him. He discovered a coded message the Funato left.

Kagura struggled to decipher the message until Iwabee made an origami related comment, inspiring on how to fold the paper, revealing its contents. The Funato planned to use the sea battle as a distraction to launch a sneak attack at Kirigakure while most of their forces were away. He asked for the swordsmen's help, but they only agreed in exchange for a full pardon, which Kagura promised to personally negotiate with Chōjūrō. He was reluctant to allow the Konoha-nin to continue aiding them, but they insisted to help, as friends and allies. Kaguta took them to his childhood village, which was on the route the Funato were taking, hoping to intercept them. His old friends were happy to see him, and he explained the situation to the village before giving out tasks to fortify it. Boruto asked Kagura about his history with the village, and listened to why he cherished it. Hebiichigo continued to be confused by Kagura's trust in her, despite her attempt on his life. He still hoped she could change.

The next day, as preparations were completed, Kagura removed the cursed seal from the swordsmen, unwilling to cause their deaths if he were to be killed fighting the Funato. When word of Funato scouts reached the village, Kagura had the shinobi stay hidden, having the village head convince the scouts there was nothing suspicious about the village. Three children were missing when most villagers were evacuated, so Kagura left to retrieve them alongside Kawaki, Boruto, and Mitsuki, as he knew the terrain. He left Sarada in charge, and managed to find the children before the scouts. Metal Lee revealed Hebiichigo had deserted the group, and despite Sarada's apprehension, he allowed Buntan and Kyohō to go after her.

As the group prepared to spring their traps, their plan was foiled by Funato scouts who had discovered them, destroying the trap. They began fighting the Funato, and Kagura was protected by a returning Hebiichigo, who had learned of the Funato's counterattack. Funamushi joined the battle, eager to fight Kagura to avenge Seiren. His Water Release: Furious Roaring Tornado took advantage of the closed terrain, but was blocked by a landslide triggered by Team 5. They retreated to the village, and blocked all water sources to deter Funamushi's jutsu. He was moved by the cooperation between the swordsmen and the Konoha-nin during the fight. Determined to avenge Seiren, Funamushi drained his own men of their blood to use his jutsu, and began attacking the village. Kagura channelled most of his chakra into Hiramekarei to stop him, but Funamushi avoided it at the last moment, taking a drained Kagura hostage, forcing the others to drop their weapons. Funamushi still stabbed Kagura through the chest as revenge.

After Boruto defeated Funamushi, Sarada and Iwabee tried to heal him, but to no avail as the wound was too severe and continued to bleed out. Knowing his end was quickly coming, Kagura thanked the swordsmen for helping him in this mission, giving them his signed request for their release after the mission. Before ultimately succumbing to his injuries, his final request was for his allies to protect the village.

 Legacy 

Kagura was buried at the base of the tree he spent his childhood training under. His selfless actions resonated with his allies, especially Hebiichigo, who was ashamed of her treacherous intentions against him. This prompted the swordsmen, Team 5 and Team 7 to avenge him and carry out his final request.

It also prompted the villagers to actively assist the shinobi in defending their village, unwilling to let Kagura's death be in vain, even offering to let themselves go hungry to allow the shinobi to eat to preserve their strength.

When Hebiichigo was killed by Funamushi, she was buried next to Kagura. Two days later, Kagura's petition to pardon Buntan, Hebiichigo, and Kyohō was approved by Kirigakure, ending their remaining sentences. Kagura's influence also caused Buntan to abandon her desire for revenge against Shizuma, instead opting to faithfully serve Kirigakure in order to live up to the expectations and faith Kagura had for her.

 Trivia 
 The name "Karatachi" refers to the trifoliate orange, also known as the Japanese bitter-orange; like all members of the Seven Ninja Swordsmen, his surname is derived from a type of produce.