Title: Kaiza
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Kaiza
-----------------------

was a travelling fisherman who came to the Land of Waves to seek new opportunity.

 Background 

After saving Inari from drowning, he taught the boy everything he knew about life, stressing that he must protect the things that were precious to him, saying to always do so "with these two arms". He eventually married Tsunami, Inari's mother, and became Inari's stepfather as well as role model. 

On one occasion the gate opened due to the rain in the village and area D could be flooded, before this, Kaiza ordered Inari for a rope, he offered to swim to the gate and eventually closed it, saving the situation for which he was considered a hero. When Gatō tried to take over the Land of Waves, Kaiza tried to stop him. But Gatō decided to use Kaiza to intimidate anyone who hoped to stand against him. To do this, he had his bodyguards cut off Kaiza's arms mocking his statement of "protecting the things you love with both arms" and then executed him in public, traumatising Inari, who was watching the execution.Naruto chapter 20, pages 4-18

 Personality 
Kaiza was a very brave man; his character was similar to Naruto's and the Fourth's. His ideology was to never give up if he ever had an aim and protect him "with both arms.". Kaiza is shown as a patriot of his homeland and a great protector of its inhabitants, as he had put his life on the line, desperately trying to prevent Gatō's intervention into the Land of Waves.

 Appearance 
Kaiza had short spiky black hair and black eyes. He had a small white rope tied around his head which was tied on the right side of his head and a small x-shaped scar on his chin. He wore a black T-shirt that had a white outline and a white pair of pants. He also had scars on his arms.

 Abilities 
Kaiza had excellent stamina; it is described by how he could save the whole village from a catastrophe alone: when a dam door accidentally opened, he managed to swim through the strong current of water to close it which was stated to be impossible by any normal human being. Tazuna explained when Kaiza attempted to stop Gatō, it took the entire gang to stop a single man.

 Legacy 
Unfortunately for Kaiza, no one was able to stand up to Gatō like he did and they all lived their lives under his ruthless reign, valuing their lives over their pride. Years later, Inari met a young boy named Naruto who passed his and Kaiza's will to Inari who passed that bravery onto the rest of the Land of Waves.

 Trivia 
 In the anime, Kaiza's arms aren't chopped off; however, they seem to be very badly injured by two of Gatō's henchmen wielding mallets.
 "Kaiza" is the Japanese version of the word "Kaiser", the German word for "emperor".

 Quotes 
 (To Inari) Naruto chapter 20, page 10