Title: Kajiki
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Kajiki
-----------------------

is a shipbuilding craftsman in the Land of Water.

 Background 
Kajiki came from a family of fishermen. However, he did not share the same passion for his family's profession, and eventually became a shipwright. He eventually took Ikada Funato as his disciple in shipbuilding. Although he thought there was something suspicious about Ikada's past, he did not question the boy.

 Personality 
Kajiki is a very stern and focused man. Adamant about efficiency, he scolds his subordinates for making mishaps. While kind in general, going out of his way to aid people in need, he is still very business-oriented, insisting that any repair work he does must be paid for. Mostly neutral to the affairs of the Land of Water, he personally views Kirigakure and the Funato Clan as no different from each other, as they try to enforce their own respective command of the seas, disliking both. He is caring man, always looking out for his associates. Upon learning of Ikada's involvement in the war with the Funato, Kajiki quickly decided to lend his support by sailing the Konoha-nin, braving a violent storm to help. Despite his general dislike of Kirigakure, he volunteered to help them in keeping surveillance on Ikada, taking the boy back under his wing despite his affiliation with terrorists.

 Appearance 
Kajiki is a tall, elderly man of fair-complexion with pronounced cheekbones and noticeable wrinkles about his forehead and under his blue eyes. He has short, spiky white hair, messy eyebrows, along with a trimmed moustache and chin-beard. He wears round, black glasses, a black shirt with purple sleeves, grey pants, a dark blue jacket, black sandals, and brown work gloves.

 Abilities 
Kajiki is revered as the best shipbuilder in the entire Land of Water. He is also a capable sailor, capable of steering his ship through very turbulent waters during inclement weather.

 New Era 
 Great Sea Battle of Kirigakure Arc 

While travelling in his personal boat with his apprentice, Ikada, Kajiki chanced upon a dead ship piloted by a group effort from Kiri and Konoha-nin. They were attacked by the Funato clan after they saved the citizens of Dotō Island, who were also on the ship. Kajiki inspected the ship's engine. Unable repair it onsite, Kajiki instead towed the ship back to his port for proper repairs. While saving everyone for free, he did however insist on be paid for repairs to the ship, which Kagura Karatachi agreed to. Midway through, he learned that Ikada failed to stock up on a crucial piece for the engine. Despite his hesitance to send Ikada to retrieve it, Boruto Uzumaki agreed to go with him, which Kajiki conceded to.

After Ikada and Boruto returned, repair continued to go smoothly, with Kajiki complimenting Ikada's improved craftsmanship. Before the day was over, Kajiki heard that Ikada left early for the first time. Later that night, with the ship's repairs nearly done, the Funato attacked. Denki and Iwabee protected Kajiki and the ship. By morning, the attack had been repelled. Later, Kajiki grew concerned by Ikada's sudden disappearance, and informed Boruto of it when he went to say goodbye to Ikada.

Sometime later, Kajiki grew more concerned as the other shipbuilders watched Araumi Funato's declaration of war on the entire Land of Water, with Ikada leading the forces. He later sailed to a port where he encountered Boruto, Sarada and Mitsuki and had them on board in order to stop the war between Kirigakure and the Funato on the sea.

Despite a harsh storm, he took Team 7 through it to meet with the Sixth Mizukage. Along the way, he voiced his belief that there wasn't really much difference between Kirigakure and the Funato, believing that Boruto could reach Ikada's kindness hidden under his hatred. Eventually, they met up with Kiri-nin, as far as Kajiki was willing to go. As a parting gift, he also lent his boat to Team 7 in order to let Boruto talk directly with Ikada.

Ultimately, Boruto's efforts to reason with Ikada succeeded. Following the surrender of the Funato, Ikada was sentenced to constant surveillance under Kajiki, who bluntly told him that since Ikada's departure, he had been understaffed.

 Trivia 
  means marlin.

pt-br:Kajiki