Title: Kakkō
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Kakkō
-----------------------

was a jōnin from Iwagakure. 

 Background 
During the Third Shinobi World War he was partnered with Taiseki and Mahiru. He most notably engaged Team Minato of Konohagakure, led by Kakashi Hatake. He was successful in capturing Rin Nohara and placed her under a genjutsu, but was unable to extract any information from her.Naruto chapter 241, pages 6-10Naruto chapter 242, page 8 

Soon after, Kakashi and Obito Uchiha appeared to rescue Rin, seemingly defeating Kakkō in the process. However, he managed to corner them. The right side of Obito's body was crushed by a boulder, and he was believed to have died during a second cave-in. Naruto chapter 243, pages 6-13 

Rin and Kakashi survived the cave-in, with Kakashi now possessing Obito's Sharingan in place of his original left eye, which he had lost in a fight with Taiseki. Kakkō was able to break Kakashi's White Light Chakra Sabre, but Kakashi's Sharingan allowed him to kill Kakkō using a newly-perfected Chidori.Naruto chapter 244, pages 2-6

 Personality 
Kakkō was a very shrewd man that has been described as being hostile and aggressive. This is witnessed mostly in his fighting style which is ruthless and precise. He had no qualms with killing or torturing children. He was also very overly self-confident in his abilities.

 Appearance 
He had black eyes and shaggy, high, black (brown in the anime) hair which was styled in a manner that somewhat resembled an afro. He wore the standard Iwa shinobi uniform, complete with a flak jacket and a shirt having no right sleeve along with a dark indument hanging from his waist onto his right leg, reaching to his knees.

 Abilities 
Though belligerent by nature, Kakkō excelled in all areas of shinobi abilities: ninjutsu, taijutsu and genjutsu, which made him a highly influential and powerful figure in Iwagakure. His extensive battle experience allowed him to formulate and use advanced tactics to defeat his enemies. He fought using retractable blades attached to his arms and showed great proficiency in wielding them. He was also shown to make use of earth release techniques, such as the Earth Release: Rock Lodging Destruction. He also excelled at gathering information, being shown using a high-level interrogation genjutsu, illustrated when he interrogated Rin.

 In Other Media 
 Video Games 

In Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 4, Kakkō appears as a boss character.

 Trivia 
 Written as 郭公, "Kakkō" means "lesser cuckoo".