Title: Kamikiri
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Kamikiri
-----------------------

was one of the members of the Fūma Clan who were betrayed by Orochimaru. He was the leader of a three-member group (alongside Jigumo and Kagerō) who guarded Orochimaru's base in the Land of the Rice Fields.

 Background 
After the Fūma Clan finished a war with a neighbouring country, they wandered the Land of Rice Fields hoping to settle down. Near the end of their journey, Orochimaru and Kimimaro appeared before the Fūma and told them that if they joined Otogakure that Orochimaru would help in restoring their power. Kamikiri agreed and went with them.

 Personality 
Kamikiri joined Orochimaru because he promised that he would return power to the Fūma Clan. Kamikiri was very loyal to Orochimaru up until he/a power crazed Arashi refused to heal Kagerō. Kamikiri then wanted revenge on Orochimaru/Arashi.

 Appearance 
Kamikiri had short smooth black hair and dark-coloured eyes. He also had thick eyebrows. He wore a short sleeve brown shirt with a maroon-coloured line running down to the end of the shirt on the right side, a black pair of fingerless gloves, and a grey pair of pants. He had a set of scissor pincers on his right arm and a black strap holding it to his arm. He also wore a grey t-shirt under his brown shirt. He wore a black belt to hold up his pants and they had a silver belt buckle on them. He also had sideburns running down the side of his face to the bottom of his ears.

 Abilities 
In battle, Kamikiri wielded a unique weapon, which he used to strike or slice away at his opponent.

 Part I 
 Land of Rice Fields Investigation Mission 

When Sasame stumbled upon Orochimaru's hideout, she was attacked by them. When she makes a deal with them to see Arashi, Kamikiri gave her a paralysing powder to use. Kamikiri, Jigumo, and Kagerō attacked Naruto Uzumaki, Jiraiya, and Sakura Haruno when Sasame seemingly drugged their tea with paralysing powder. After that, Kamikiri went back on their deal and knocked Sasame to the ground. When it turned out that the Naruto, Jiraiya, and Sakura that were drugged were actually part of a substitution jutsu, the real ones attacked and Kamikiri was defeated. Later, he and Jigumo were killed by Arashi, who was disguised as Orochimaru, and absorbed by his Casualty Puppet.

 Trivia 
 "Kamikiri", when written as 紙切り, means "paper silhouette cutout" or "paper knife". Likewise, the Longhorn beetle is called  in Japanese.