Title: Kande Inabikari
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Kande_Inabikari
-----------------------

is an Academy student of Konohagakure.

 Personality 
Kande is a laidback boy with confidence in his abilities.

 Appearance 
Kande is an average-height child with fair skin and yellow eyes. He also has blue messy hair with strands standing about. He wears a white hoodie and pants with a simple brown bracelet on his left wrist.

 Abilities 
While only just starting in the Academy, Kande has rather adept skill in Lightning Release, able to generate it from his hair and launch bolts accurately to start a fire for cooking.

 New Era 
 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

Kande attended the Academy opening ceremony as part of a new class. His classroom was put under the care of new teacher Hana Kaka. His class included many children of famous people, including the daughter of an acting duo, the daughter of the Seventh Hokage, and Kae Yukiwari, the princess of the Land of Bamboo. The class also included Kawaki, a noticeably older student.

Later, Kande was placed on a practice team with Konashi Nerikiri and Mimi Inuzuka as part of a series of competitions to improve teamwork skills. While making lunch, Kande used his Lighting Release to start a fire for cooking.

When the class had to put on a play about the Sannin, Kande was cast as Gamabunta. After Eiki's struggle with Kawaki damaged the set, Kande joined in the repair efforts.

The day of the festival, Kande helped his classmates set up the stands and decorations. When the festival received a terrorist threat, he stayed inside. Later, following Hana being hospitalised from the terrorist attack, Kande joined his class in welcoming back their teacher. To make up for the festival being cancelled, Hana arranged for the class to undergo survival training on an uninhabited island. However, Kikuchiyo was injured and their food supplies vanished, stoking fear about a rumour of killer missing-nin settling on the island. Everyone formed groups to scavenge food, and later to look for Neon's damaged drone. By night, everyone enjoyed their food.

Attracted by an explosion, the class encountered Kawaki and Himawari, who revealed that Hana, actually an assassin, had killed Kae. Himawari pointed out that her actions made more sense if Hana wanted to keep Kae as a hostage. Working together, the students tracked Kae and Hana to a cave. Finding the situation too dangerous for the students, Kawaki revealed himself as a shinobi, and credited them for helping find Kae. Eiki still believed there was something they could do, leading them to the docks, hoping to get word of the situation out. They came across Sai, who came to the island with Team 25 after discovering Hana's Land of Bamboo background. Upon finding Hana defeated, her teacher personality struggled against the assassin one, eventually prevailing with the encouragement of her students and regaining control. As Kae had to return home, the class finally put on the Sannin play, and later saw her off at the train station. 

 Trivia 
 When written as "稲光", "Inabikari" means "a flash of lightning", while "Kande" could be derived from kanden (感電), which means "receiving an electric shock".

pt-br:Kande Inabikari