Title: Kaneki
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Kaneki
-----------------------

is the president of the Kaneki Corporation.

 Background 
In order to retain his reputation against rival companies, Kaneki pushed forward a dangerous project in one of his chemical plants, even when warned of the high risk. This resulted in an explosion that killed many people. He successfully pinned the blame of the explosion on the deceased project developer, Mikazuki Amaashi.

 Personality 

Kaneki is a rather mischievous old man who does whatever he wants, taking advantage of his status. He absolutely does not feel the torment of conscience for the death of a girl at his enterprise, blaming her for everything. However, behind his power and money, Kaneki is unable to hide his cowardice, which he showed when the Rain Killer attacked, begging him for mercy. He is able to admit some mistakes, as he accepted the help of Kōtarō Fūma and Team 7 in his security, whom he had previously driven off, relying on his own bodyguards.

 Appearance 
Kaneki is an older, stocky, short man with black eyes that he almost always keeps closed and a round, wrinkled face. He has long grey hair that has a huge bald patch in the centre of his head. Kaneki is wearing grey pants, a dark grey shirt, and a purple kimono.

 Abilities 
As the president of a large company that competes with the Kaminarimon Company, Kaneki has considerable power. He allows himself to refuse the help of the police and even be rude to its leader, and also retains a huge number of bodyguards.

 New Era 

When the Rain Killer began targeting and killing those connected the explosion, Kaneki refused the police's offer a protective detail, believing his own bodyguards to be enough. They guarded him anyway without his knowledge, and foiled a kidnapping attempt. A second attempt was successful on account of a change of method on the killer's part. Kaneki was brought to Mikazuki's grave, and survived due to Mitsuki's victory over Samidare Amaashi. New charges were brought upon Kaneki, which also led to the reopening of the investigation of the explosion.