Title: Karashi
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Karashi
-----------------------

is Sanshō's son, and heir to her Curry of Life Shop.

 Background 
Karashi was bullied before meeting Rock Lee, and saw Rock Lee as a strong person and role model. However, he chose to join Raiga Kurosuki's family, due to seeing how hard Rock Lee worked to improve his skills as a shinobi, thus concluding that power is everything.

 Personality 
He seems to be very timid, but acts tough. He appears to be very willing to blame his choices on someone else, and is a complete coward. However, he is capable of being selfless once in a while. He's also quite frightened of his mother, but always does what she says and is also treated like a little child. Karashi's personality resembles a personality more like a child, he always depends on someone else and is frightened easily. He also runs away from battles.

 Part I 
 Kurosuki Family Removal Mission 
One year later, he met Lee again, who was with Naruto Uzumaki and the rest of Team Guy on a mission to defeat the Kurosuki Family. When all of his comrades were knocked out, he begged Lee to spare his life, and promised that he would leave the Kurosuki Family.

However, this turned out to be an empty promise, as he later helped in a plot to kill Lee and his comrades, for which the villagers tried to punish him. Throughout all of this, Lee remained patient, and repeatedly gave Karashi second chances. After the plot to kill Lee, Lee told the villagers he would "improve" Karashi, by making him work non-stop in order to negate his punishment. However, even after this, Karashi remained a selfish coward, and when he found Raiga about to kill him for Ranmaru's supposed death, he blamed it on the Konoha ninja, and lured them to Raiga by claiming that Tenten fell off a cliff.

He intended to use this to help his mother escape, but Sanshō insisted on staying and waiting for the ninja. However, he later helped his mother make the true Curry of Life by correcting her recipe, based merely on smelling the curry cooking, thus helping to save Naruto and his companions. He now trains Ranmaru to make the Curry of Life, but is still Sanshō's student at that.

 Trivia 
 Karashi means "mustard".