Title: Katazu
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Katazu
-----------------------

is a swordsman who took his twin brother Kageki's identity after the accidental death of Shikazo.

 Background 
Kageki had loaned money to Shikazo but after the birth of his child, he asked to be repaid by him but Shikazo refused and a scuffle broke out which resulted him hitting his head on a rock hard enough to kill him. Kageki went to Katazu after that and he took his brother's identity while Kageki and his family went into hiding. Katazu purposely attracted Shikazo's pursuers while they went into hiding.

 Personality 
Katazu is quite a calm person and does not lose his laid-back appearance even during the battle. He seems to blame himself for some sins and decided that saving his brother from someone else's revenge by taking his guilt on himself is a good way to atone for the guilt. He is ready to believe in his brother's innocence only by starting from his words, but at the same time he believes him so deeply that it is even reflected in Katazu's eyes, which is why Tsukado was not able to attack him normally.

 Appearance 
Katazu has long messy brown hair that he keeps in a pony tail in the back and black eyes. He also wears a red headband with some parts of his bangs drooping over it. Katazu wears a brown robe tied with a sash that carries the scabbard of his sword, as well as blue pants and a pair of sandals. His ankles, wrists and stomach are wrapped in bandages, and his hands are covered with special gloves.

 Abilities 
He is skilled in wielding a sword and is powerful enough to defeat several enemies at once, shattering their weapons. His skill is also evidenced by the fact that he uses a sword with a blunt blade, but even with such a weapon, he deflected the blows of the more massive sword of Tsukado, while filled with chakra, and even knocked it out of the opponent's hands.

 Part II 
 Past Arc: The Locus of Konoha 

Since then, Tsukado was tasked by his clan to carry out a vendetta against him, but failed to defeat Katazu thirty-four times.The next day, Kanabun brought Katazu to Tsukado to profit off their fight. With Naruto's help, Tsukado was able to get the advantage but Naruto stopped their fight, noticing that Katazu couldn't have killed Shikazo. Katazu revealed the truth to Tsukado, who decided not to kill him. Kanabun and his gang tried to force the two to fight again but the swordsmen and Team 7 chased them out of town.