Title: Kihō
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Kihō
-----------------------

was a shinobi from Otogakure, and a member of Team Guren.

 Personality 
He seemed rather blunt, and went along with Rinji's strategies without complaints. He, like some of his teammates, wanted nothing to do with Orochimaru and wished to flee. Kihō also feared death and would do anything to live. He referred to death as "going boom" because of Kabuto.

 Appearance 
Kihō had pale, pasty-looking skin and white hair with dark, blue-framed glasses with orange lenses. His outfit consisted a dark purple cloak with orange outlines with blue pants and wore geta that were tan with black strips and only sandal hold.

 Abilities 

Kihō was a long-range fighter, using his wrist/arm-mounted rocket launcher as the key component in battle. Using the weapon, he could fire smoke bombs to obscure an opponent's field of vision. He can also manipulate the smoke to form a smoke dragon, which can envelop and suffocate the enemy, and due to being made of smoke, is immune to physical attacks. As shown in his defeat by Yamato, his smoke attacks appeared to be weak to Water Release.

After being given a cursed seal, his chakra reserves and attacks were increased to such an extent that he could easily defeat enemies that he previously lost to. A drawback of this however, is that Kihō needs to take a pill after a certain amount of time, or the seal would kill him by tearing him from the inside out.

 Part II 
 Three-Tails' Appearance 
He was one of Orochimaru's prisoners that was selected to join forces with Guren. When Guren left with Kabuto and Yūkimaru, he was instructed to stay behind to deal with Team Kurenai and Team Yamato. He was easily defeated by Rock Lee, Tenten, and Kiba Inuzuka. Later, Kabuto forcibly activated the groups cursed seals. Kihō was then ordered to attack the Konoha ninja again. He and his team succeeded to defeat the first defence team consisting of Kiba, Lee, and Tenten. After doing so and retrieving Yūkimaru, Kihō and his team initially planned to run away from Orochimaru's grasp, only to find out that their cursed seals would kill them if not properly taken care of. Forced to stay, Kihō and his team were sent to stop the Konoha ninja from sealing the Three-Tails. He went against Yamato and ended up getting killed after Yamato destroyed his Smoke Dragons with his water technique and crushed him with his wood jutsu. After his death, Nurari merges with him and Kigiri into a monster and they fought against Kakashi and the others. As Kakashi was about to kill them, they were killed by the rampaging Three-Tails.

 Trivia 
 He was the only henchman of Guren not to be shown in the fourth opening of Naruto: Shippūden.
 Kihō's name, when broke up can be translated as:  means "ghost", "demon" or "devil", while  means "(male) phoenix".