Title: Kiri (ninja)
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Kiri_(ninja)
-----------------------

is a medical-nin from Kirigakure.

 Personality 
In the anime, Kiri harbours hostility towards the shinobi of Iwagakure for having killed his father.Naruto: Shippūden episode 242 He is a focused shinobi who cares about his comrades' lives.Naruto chapter 518, page 9

 Appearance 
Kiri has short spiky, black hair and black eyes. He wears the standard attire of a Kirigakure shinobi inclusive of flak jacket, and pin-stripped leg and arm-guards. He also wears the forehead protector of the Allied Shinobi Forces.

 Abilities 
As a medical-nin, Kiri is able to perform the Mystical Palm Technique to heal one's injuries. He was also shown to be a keen strategist, aiding Kankurō in the planning of an ambush.Naruto chapter 519, page 4

 Part II 
 Paradise Life on a Boat 

In the anime, Kiri was amongst a group of Kiri-nin that followed Ganryū to a small island off the coast of the Land of Water with the intention of killing the messenger from Iwagakure. When Ganryū later told them to fall back, after hearing that their actions were violating the will of the Fifth Mizukage, Kiri was amongst the shinobi that voiced their discontent with this. Nevertheless they retreated after getting attacked by Naruto's shadow clones.

 Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation 

During the Fourth Shinobi World War, Kiri was assigned to the Surprise Attack Division. After the division mobilised and found a good location to set up camp, Kankurō and Kiri begin to formulate battle strategies. Later, when Zaji was injured, Kiri was asked to attend to him. Protected by Ittan's rock shelter, Kiri healed the injured, and after the explosion asked Zaji what was happening on the outside, and was reassured that everyone was still alive.

Later he and the part of his division encountered a back up for the Surprise Attack and Diversion Platoon. When they tried to flee from it, they were hit with Ibuse's Poison Mist and succumbed to its effects. They are however rescued by the samurai of the Fifth Division who carry them to the medical unit for treatment.

 Trivia 
 Though not mentioned in episode 242, his name was given in the ending credits, confirming that the shinobi featured in the episode was indeed Kiri.
 In Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 3, Kiri's character model is used as a background Kirigakure shinobi. Kiri himself plays no role in the story.
 In the fourth databook, he's listed as an Iwagakure shinobi.