Title: Kirisame
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Kirisame
-----------------------

is a missing-nin from Amegakure.

 Background 
He left his village behind to help Suien seek the Hero Water in Takigakure.

 Personality 
He seems to be the most sadistic of the three, as he laughs while repeatedly stomping Naruto. He enjoys killing and even had to be repeatedly reminded not to kill so many people by Suien.

 Appearance 
Kirisame wears a grey hat like forehead protector with the Amegakure symbol on the front of it, tied around the back of his head. He has tiny black pupils, messy, chin-length brown hair coming out from under his forehead protector, part of it covering his left eye, and very thin eyebrows. He wears a black skin-tight suit underneath all of his clothing, which also covers his mouth and nose. He wears a light grey scarf around his neck, a light grey T-shirt over his suit, a blue-coloured strapped suit that acts as his pants and a shirt over his grey one. He wears his weapon holster on his right thigh and black shinobi sandals.

 Abilities 
Kirisame could use Water Release: Water Whip to make a rope out of water he could whip his opponents with, as well as restrain them. He was also skilled in taijutsu.

In the novelisation, Kirisame could make use of water clones, and could create weapons out of water for both short and long-range combat. He could also use Lightning Release, capable of channelling lightning chakra through his water whip to immobilise enemies.

 Plot Overview 
He was first seen with his team-mates (excluding Suien) and many other missing-nin. They attack Shizuku's mother in the forest. He then jumps out of the forest with his comrades. He knocks Sakura unconscious and then takes Shizuku and Himatsu hostage. He along with Hisame and Murasame then attack Naruto and Sasuke, but Sasuke launches a fireball at them which Kirisame easily dodges while his comrades retrain Sasuke. The leader of their group now appears and tells him and the others to take Sasuke as a hostage as well. Kirisame later infiltrates Takigakure and takes all of its villagers hostage and will only release them for the Hero Water. He starts whipping the kids with his Water Whip so they will stop talking to Shibuki. After Suien takes down Naruto, Kirisame and the others proceed to beat Naruto so that he'll give up Shibuki's location. Shibuki then appears behind Kirisame and his two comrades and knocks them out with a powerful Water Release. He was revealed to be alive in the novel and captured by Kakashi in the end.

 Trivia 
  means "mist rain".

pt-br:Kirisame