Title: Kobanza
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Kobanza
-----------------------

was a pirate from the Funato clan.

 Personality 
Kobanza was a patient and careful individual, willing to bide his time to reach a goal, but only up to a point. His spreading of Taiki's murder and the inconsistencies in his false testimony while impersonating a Dotō Island refugee were enough to expose his plan upon close scrutiny. He preferred to deal with enemies in a stealthy manner, turning them against each other. He was fiercely loyal to the Funato Clan, preferring to kill himself in an attack against their enemies rather than risking a harsh interrogation that could reveal intel about them.

 Appearance 
Kobanza was a tall, burly man, with a fish-like appearance. He was bald, and had Funato clan marks on the left side of his head. He had pointy teeth. Kobanza wore body armour without a shirt, gloves, and bandages around his arms.

 Abilities 

Kobanza was very physically strong, able to use Kabutowari. He was a Water Release user, capable of turning himself into water for various purposes, moving through locations through small cracks, and most notably getting inside another person and controlling their actions.

 New Era 
 Great Sea Battle of Kirigakure Arc 

Kobanza infiltrated a stolen Funato ship by hiding inside a Dotō Islander refugee and controlling him. At night, he stole Kabutowari and used it to kill Taiki, returning it to Kyohō to frame him for it. He spread word of it among the other refugees to incite suspicion and conflict. Still posing as a refugee, he claimed to have seen Kyohō going to Taiki's quarters at night while going to bathroom. Kobanza later learned that Kyohō had been killed, and went to claim his body and sword for himself, only to discover he was still alive, a ruse devised by Kawaki to expose him. He turned himself to water, but Boruto and Mitsuki attacked him with Lightning Release kunai. He escaped through cracks on the walls and made his way to the engine room. He was momentarily immobilised by Hebiichigo with Nuibari, but the prospect of being interrogated by Buntan made him force his way through it, killing himself in an attempt to take out their engine and avoid revealing intel on the Funato.

 Trivia 
 His name might be a reference to the .