Title: Kobu
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Kobu
-----------------------

is the advisor of the Fire Daimyō.

 Personality 
As the chief advisor of the Fire Daimyō, Kobu is a trustworthy, intelligent, and efficient man. During the meeting with Konoha, he showed himself to be a no-nonsense individual, seeking to complete his job without delay. Even more, Kobu can be quite unreasonable and demanding, seeming to prioritize the politics of Konoha's leadership rather than the direct attack caused by the Human God Tree, going as far as to demand Shikamaru Nara's presence under the threat of considering his refusal as a direct defiance against the Land of Fire, and it's daimyō, in spite of Shikamaru's claims that he needed to protect the citizens of the village. It was only when faced with imminent death against Mamushi did he finally relent, albeit reluctantly with the open intent to continue with the interrogation after the situation is resolved.

 Appearance 
Kobu is a tall, middle-aged man. He has a round face with pronounced cheekbones. He has trimmed, dark hair with bangs swiped to the left and streaks of white on the temples and the front. He wears light pants with dark robes that have a high collar. He also has a belt with the Land of Fire emblem on the front.

 Abilities 
As the advisor to the daimyō, Kobu is an efficient and perceptive man. Skilled in interrogation, he easily read through Konohamaru Sarutobi's attempts to deceive him. However, being a noncombatant, his body is not suited for the agility of a shinobi, as Inojin Yamanaka struggled to evade the mentally-diminished Mamushi's assault while possessing Kobu.

 New Era: Part II 
 Mamushi Arc 

Upon the Fire Daimyō questioning the interim Hokage's ability to carry out the responsibilities of being the head of his village, Kobu approached the elders of Konohagakure who summoned the Eighth Hokage. During their meeting, Kobu brought up the possibility of a mole being in the inner circle of the village which would affect the security of the village and the Land of Fire, prompting him to have Sai Yamanaka escort Konohamaru Sarutobi away for Kobu to start questioning him and others in order to identify who helped Boruto escape custody in the village.

As he began interrogating Konohamaru, he concluded from the Jōnin's demeanor that he didn't have the nature to ever turn traitor and that it was someone not besides the interrogators of Boruto helped the missing-nin escape. Following Konohamaru's dismissal, Mitsuki was then brought in as the next to be interrogated for his presence during Boruto's escape. He noted that Boruto's cuffs were no faulty, meaning a random attack wouldn't unlock them, concluding that Mitsuki must have deliberately released Boruto. He demanded to know which of the only three people who knew the code gave it to him. Suddenly, Konohamaru returned, proclaiming that Boruto's escape was his fault, having forgotten to lock code in the first place. Kobu however easily so through the lie, realizing that Konohamaru was trying to protect someone. From this, he demanded that the acting Eighth Hokage be interrogated next.

As it was alerted by Sai Yamanaka that the village was under attack by Human God Trees, Kobu chose to ignore it and continue his investigation. As he began talking to Shikamaru, making his views clear, he was suddenly overtaken by Inojin Yamanaka's Mind Body Switch Technique via Koji Kashin's toads. Inojin, pretending to be Kobu, excused himself and took Kobu to the roof of the building. As it was contemplated by Koji to kill the advisor and protect Shikamaru's status as Hokage, several Mamsuhis appeared. Taking matters into his own hand, Koji made his toad on Kubo attack a Mamushi, prompting him to attack the advisor.

After Koji forcibly ended Inojin's control of Kobu, the advisor wondered where he was an why he was being attacked. The Mamushi then blasted him with flames. Before the flames could do much damage, Boruto arrived, quickly killing the Divisions and absorbed the flames. Kobu was then approached by Shikamaru and Sai, the latter tasked to bring Kobu to get medical. Shikamaru insisted that the situation was too dire for further interrogating and they needed to protect the village. Kobu reluctantly conceded, but made it clear he would soon resume his investigation and bring to light the truth of Shikamaru's actions.