Title: Kohan Yamanaka
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Kohan_Yamanaka
-----------------------

is a member of Konohagakure's Yamanaka Clan, as well as a shinobi in the Konoha Barrier Team.

 Personality 
Kohan is a very disciplined man, taking his job seriously. He dislikes tardiness and does not believe in coddling people. At the same time, he is a kind man who seeks to help where he can. He is also openly an admirer of Ino Yamanaka.

 Appearance 
Kohan is a tall man of fair complexion and pale blue eyes. He has hime-style blond hair reaching his mid-back that is tied in a high ponytail. He wears the latest Konohagakure shinobi attire, including high sandals, grey pants and a navy blue long-sleeved shirt, and green flack jacket.

 Abilities 
As a trained member of the Yamanaka Clan, Kohan is implied to be well-versed in his clan's mind-oriented techniques. He is a skilled sensor, working alongside the Konoha Barrier Team. He is also a capable teacher of the skill.

 New Era 
Kohan took part of the trial run of Konohagakure's new, automated sensing system. He was partnered with fellow clansman Inojin, and tasked with apprehending mock intruders. He was surprised by Inojin's poor performance, who failed to apprehend a single target. Inojin asked him for pointers, which he did, drawing a comparison with their clan's hiden jutsu. During one of the tests, Inojin claimed to detect a strange chakra, with Kohan verified and confirmed to be a registered signature. Inojin insisted there was something off, and when Shikadai vouched for him, Kohan allowed them to investigate, eventually discovering an actual intruder and a loophole in the sensing system. He congratulated Ino on her son's discovery. She however admitted Inojin had little aptitude for sensing, and would have to find his own way.

Later, Kohan rushed to Chōchō and Inojin to clear a mistake on their assigned mission, which was based on outdated information about Jingo Kumano's status as a Kumo missing-nin, and apologised profusely for the mix-up.

 Trivia 
  means "ellipse" or "lakeside".