Title: Koji Kashin
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Koji_Kashin
-----------------------

is a clone of Jiraiya that was created by Amado Sanzu for the purpose of killing Isshiki Ōtsutsuki. A former Inner of Kara, he was in charge of the sector on the outskirts of the Land of Fire. At some point in the three years following Boruto Uzumaki's forced defection from Konohagakure after his life was altered, Koji became Boruto's aide and newest teacher in his quest to eliminate Code and the God Trees, involving to aid Boruto to prove his innocence and regain everything that was taken from him.

 Background 
Koji was created as an alternate plan against Isshiki after Amado's plan for using augmented cyborg Outers was shut down by Jigen. In the anime, Koji witnessed Kawaki being confronted by Garō and the young boy unconsciously activated his Kāma and blasted Garō.Boruto episode 188 At some point later, Koji was present with Victor, observing the former Kirigakure shinobi Ao's rehabilitation.Boruto episode 186

 Personality 
An enigmatic man,Weekly Shōnen Jump Koji has a very stoic and straightforward nature that follows a no-nonsense view, having a completely one-track mind regarding his goals. Arrogant as he may appear, he has consistently shown himself to be a very rational and perceptive man. He is very calculating and methodical in his approach, able to immediately determine the truth of the situation before him and likewise able to determine how things will most likely play out. To which, he makes decision based on hard logic, not allowing himself to get too worked and always focus on the big picture of his goals. This makes him very problematic, not concerning himself with small sacrifices when weighed against the final objective. At the same time, he isn't flawless, as Koji wasn't able to anticipate that Isshiki had seen through his deceptions from the very beginning, while also showing quite a fearless side, being only slightly intimidated by Isshiki's anger, even mocking him for not being able to completely contain it despite his best efforts. He is also shown to very persuasive, able to convince the very stubborn, loyal, and short-tempered member of Kara, Delta, to follow his lead. 

When introduced, he showed absolute loyalty to Kara, willing to assassinate a fellow colleague on orders from his leader. He also appears to have an interest in Boruto Uzumaki. Ultimately, however, his loyalty to Kara was nothing but a façade for his true goal of eliminating Isshiki Ōtsutsuki. As such, Koji was forced to partake in several cruel and inhumane activities to maintain his cover, such as collecting children to act as Isshiki's vessel, leading to the deaths of all of them, but two, as well as threatening the peace created by the Five Great Shinobi Countries by recruiting Inners and Outers across the world to support Kara, all the while acting completely indifferent, believing that while heartless, his actions were necessary for the greater good. Nevertheless, even acting under Kara, Koji refrained from killing others unless absolutely necessary, as despite being directly confronted by Kakashi Hatake, he chose to escape rather than outright kill him, having the necessary power to do so. Even more, whereas his previous subservient nature to Kara made him look down on the shinobi lifestyle, reprimanding Ao for clinging to such, Koji is shown to be rather proud of being a shinobi himself, stating outright he is fine with working as a tool as that is part of being a shinobi.

In the anime, seemingly having inherited some of his genetic source's love for Konohagakure, Koji openly feels nostalgic for the village, smiling at the thought of it.Boruto episode 211 Like Jiraiya, Koji is resolute until the end, almost to a fault. Despite being made to realise that Amado never meant for him to go beyond killing Isshiki's vessel, Koji remained confident of himself, even believing he could defeat the Celestial Being singlehandedly. Even when brought to the brink of death from his battle with Isshiki, Koji still retained a defiant look rather than a look of fear. Despite having fulfilled his original purpose of killing Jigen and was about to accept death, upon realising that an even greater threat to the world will come to be, Koji refuses to die yet and worked to prevent the worst future from taking place, showing his sense of responsibility, free will and humanity beyond his programmed purpose.

Furthermore, while Koji is resolutely devoted to stopping the Chakra Fruit from being developed, he has still retained his pragmatic nature and is willing to sacrifice others in order to guarantee the most successful future, as seen when he didn't tell Boruto that Yodo would perish against Ryu, causing some friction between the two as Koji considers Boruto's altruistic nature to be naive. Furthermore, after learning of Kobu's unreasonable prioritization in interrogating Shikamaru, even while aware of the attack on Konoha by the Human God Trees, Koji resolved to kill him in order to prevent him from possibly removing Shikamaru from his Hokage duties.

 Appearance 

As a clone of Jiraiya, Koji's likeness is identical to the Sannin, albeit he is physically in his prime compared to his template, having no wrinkles and his hair is straight unlike Jiraiya's spiky hair. Koji is a tall man with shoulder-length white hair that he keeps the top of in a topknot, leaving the rest to flow freely. He also sports trimmed beard along his jawline and black markings on the corner of his eyes, extending downward and ending to his cheeks which resemble the Roman numeral "Ⅱ". He also has a small wart on left side of his nose. He also noticeably wears a mask which conceals the top-half of his face, which he later abandoned wearing after it was broken, along with the black hooded robe with maroon lining that seems standard of Kara. Beneath his robes, during his meetings with Kara and Ao, he wore a long maroon coat with a row of buttons on the right side; during the meeting with Kara it was left unbuttoned, but while meeting with Ao the buttons were fastened and he wore a belt over it. Later, when confronting Team Konohamaru, he donned a shorter maroon jacket with black lining and straps with buckles, as well as a brown tactical belt and armour on his upper right leg and a pouch on his left hip.

Three years after Boruto left Konoha, Koji discarded his broken mask though he kept it in possession and wears red and black-zipped jacket and matching pants with a long-length cloak. He also lets his hair down.

 Abilities 
As a clone of one of the Sannin and an Inner of Kara whose body had been modified with Scientific Ninja Tools and Shibai Ōtsutsuki’s DNA by Amado,Boruto chapter 42, page 23Boruto Two Blue Vortex chapter 13, page 21 Koji is regarded to be a complete monster in terms of power and ability.Boruto chapter 31, page 3 He was able to easily overpower and defeat one of Konoha's top jōnin.Boruto episode 187 In the anime, he was viewed as a very troublesome opponent by the Sixth Hokage.Boruto episode 211 He appears to be among the stronger Inners, as he easily defeated and killed Victor and was confident he could defeat Delta. Even Isshiki Ōtsutsuki himself acknowledged Koji as a very capable man. He was capable of killing Isshiki's vessel, Jigen, who was severely weakened but still a major threat, and even held his own against Isshiki himself.Boruto chapter 46-48

 Physical and Chakra Prowess 
He is remarkably fast, able to catch an opponent off guard from a distance even while they face him. He possesses great stealth skill, as he snuck up on the more experienced Victor unnoticed and also moved around Konohagakure upon infiltrating it completely unnoticed. He is highly skilled in taijutsu, easily countering all of Konohamaru Sarutobi's melee attacks and simultaneously implanting techniques on the latter without him knowing. He could even compete with a heavily weakened Jigen, able to counter and exchange blows with him very well. He is extremely resilient, able to survive having an arm destroyed, his torso and legs crippled, and still had enough strength to summon a toad to escape. Likewise, Koji has tremendous chakra control, able to perform techniques with only a single hand, despite his mangled state. He also has equally strong and large enough reserves of chakra to use Sage Mode.

 Ninjutsu 

Koji uses ninjutsu from Konohagakure, and has inherited his template's mastery and skillset at a greater scale. His knowledge of the various Konoha techniques apparently extends even to Hiden techniques, and likewise knows how to cancel them from others.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 31, page 27 He can create multiple shadow clones and seamlessly switch places with them to avoid detection. He is one of few to use the Rasengan, easily matching Konohamaru Sarutobi's own usage, and can even use the Ultra-Big Ball Rasengan. He is very knowledgeable of other people's techniques, as he understood the nature of the Konohagakure Sensing Barrier and how to bypass it.Boruto chapter 28, page 40 He can also manipulate his hair to attack and defend against his enemies.

Koji's skill in shurikenjutsu can effortlessly hit a fellow Inner of Kara before they can react. He can use Space–Time Ninjutsu, able to enter Kara's Ten-Tails' dimension at will. Koji can summon toads to aid him, ranging from summoning tiny toads that act for surveillance, act as a medium for his techniques, and giant toads to crush targets. Uniquely, he can also prepare and sustain formulae to summon naturally occurring phenomena from their source, such as perpetually burning natural flames.Boruto chapter 46 Koji is also shown frequently using the Reverse Summoning Technique as a means of transportation. Using his toads as a medium, even from great distances, those caught within range of his summoning formula can be brought to him or to any desired location.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 26, pages 5-6 Even in the midst of combat, he can use the technique as a means to quickly escape dangerous situations. 

He can use fūinjutsu to paralyse targets within his erected pillars. He can also produce a smokescreen from his body and launch sticky oil from his mouth.

 Nature Transformation 

Koji can utilise Fire and Earth Release. He has shown great mastery in using Fire Release; he can use True Fire of Samadhi, that from hitting targets through small mediums, will cause the victim to spontaneously combust, strong enough to overcome a target's regeneration capabilities and never extinguish. He can also launch a barrage of fireballs from his mouth and even imbue his fist with fire to consume his target in flames upon striking. With Earth Release, he can morph the ground in the area into sinking mud to ensnare his foes. With Yin Release, he can use genjutsu to project an image of himself to talk with people from a distance.Boruto chapter 16Boruto episode 181 Alternatively, he can also use genjutsu to obtain intel from peopleBoruto episode 53 or to project a large-scale illusion to camouflage the area.Boruto episode 181Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 13, page 10

 Senjutsu 

Koji can use Sage Mode. Unlike his template, Koji can instantly access it with a perfect balance of chakra and natural energy, emphasised by gaining toad-like irides with black pigmentation around his eyes and no other physical alterations. Through his senjutsu skills, Koji enhanced his physical abilities and sensory perception to the point of being able to catch a strike from Isshiki Ōtsutsuki and temporarily keep him at bay before quickly countering. His ninjutsu is also enhanced, able to use techniques such as Sage Art: Five Fire Gods' Fan of Flames, to the point of temporarily pressuring and surprising Isshiki with the overwhelming amount of flames.

 Shinjutsu 
On the brink of death during his battle against Isshiki, Koji awakened the inherited shinjutsu ability from his implanted Shibai cells: Ten Directions. This grants him the abilities to see the multiple possible futures. He was able to use this to foresee the events of Omnipotence being cast. Thus, allowing him to deduce after the event that his memories of Boruto and Kawaki were altered. Using this foresight, Koji is able to map out a plan for optimum results. This included designing a training system that drastically improved Boruto's prowess, which includes teaching him all the skills and techniques he would learn in different potential futures, all done within a short period of time.

 New Era: Part I 
 Versus Momoshiki Arc 

In the anime, during the days leading up to the Chūnin Exams, Koji ambushed Katasuke Tōno to find out who was stealing data for Kara using genjutsu on a scientist. Having learned that Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki was defeated, he assumed Naruto Uzumaki was the person responsible for Momoshiki's defeat.

 Kara Actuation Arc 

In the anime, Koji was present when Jigen called a meeting with the Inners, informing them of the destruction of one their facilities in Amegakure set by an Outer.

 Ao Arc 

As a part of a secret plan, Koji and Amado conspired to betray Jigen and ultimately kill him and Isshiki Ōtsutsuki, and caused the airship transporting the "vessel" to crash.Boruto chapter 45, page 33 Upon their organisation losing their "vessel", Koji discusses the matter with the other members of Kara. Immediately after their meeting, Koji approached fellow Inner Victor to assassinate him, and mocked him for not noticing his presence. After impaling him with a kunai, Koji used True Fire of Samadhi and incinerated Victor under Jigen's orders to punish the former for conspiring against Kara, before thinking about Konoha. Shortly later, he approached Ao on the Thunder Train, and instructed him to retrieve the "vessel" Kara lost, and provided him with the weaponry for the mission. After Ao fought Team Konohamaru during his search, Koji approached him, and questioned Ao's resolve to fight fellow shinobi again. Stating his compassion has long since gone, Koji was content with his answer and warned him about their enemy preparing an ambush for him before departing.

Having watched Boruto Uzumaki defeat Ao, Koji summoned the Steam Toad on top of the pair, which crushed Ao to death. Refusing to enlighten them about Kara, he paralysed the team using fūinjutsu. Overcoming the technique, Konohamaru faced Koji alone, during which he attempted to strike Koji with his Rasengan, prompting Koji to counter it with his own. Complementing his opponent on his skill, Koji engulfed Konohamaru in flames, which triggered Boruto's Kāma activating. Shocked to see it, Boruto subconsciously absorbed Koji's techniques. Thanking Boruto for showing him it, Koji decided to leave, before complimenting Mitsuki for stopping Sarada from recklessly pursuing him.

 Kawaki Arc 

Shortly after, Koji observed Team 7 making contact with Kawaki, before being joined by Delta. Realising she didn't have faith in him recovering the vessel, Delta informed him that she invited Garō to partake in the mission. When Boruto revealed his Kāma to Kawaki, Koji questioned what would happen next. After Kawaki killed Garō and fainted from overheating, Koji convinced Delta against getting rid of the Konoha-nin and retrieve Kawaki then and there, feeling that Boruto having a Kāma merited further observation before taking action, also arguing that the crash blimp made it inevitable that the world would learn about Kara before bowing to their power. Later, Koji and Delta arrived at the main gates of Konohagakure to retrieve Kawaki. While Delta stated that it would be difficult infiltrating, Koji told her to stay put before entering the village without setting anything off and began searching for Kawaki. Once inside, Koji summoned a small toad to find Kawaki, who he eventually found taking shelter in the Seventh Hokage's home. Deciding it was too dangerous to engage Naruto, Koji decided to continue observing for the time being.

He watched as Boruto and Kawaki make the Seal of Reconciliation, and Boruto was taken aback by a vision, an event which also made him instantly heal his hand. Koji was greatly intrigued by this, wondering if it was a byproduct of the Kāma and worried if Jigen had the same ability. He then noticed Delta propelling herself through the village and to Kawaki, noting how out of control she is. After Delta was defeated by Naruto, Koji praised Naruto's strength but noted not even he could defeat Jigen, considering the Kāma, like the one in Boruto's hand the only way to do it. As Koji continued to monitor Kawaki, he expressed concern on how it had been a while since Delta had been defeated yet Jigen had still not made a move, believing it to be unlike him especially as he had definitely learned about Boruto's Kāma and Naruto's personal protection of Kawaki from Delta. To his shock, Jigen teleported to Kawaki's location through the Kāma he gave him and wondered if he could do that anytime then why would he assign a mission to retrieve Kawaki in the first place. As Jigen sensed the presence of Koji's toad, Koji dispelled it as he realised from the beginning Jigen had suspected him and had been baiting him to learn his true motives, rather than Koji probing Jigen's movements. 

In the anime, Koji snuck a toad through the portal to continue watching the fight between Naruto, Sasuke Uchiha, and Jigen. He watched how despite Naruto and Sasuke's defeat, their efforts overtaxed Jigen's body, which was breaking down. Afterwards, Koji was approached by Boro via genjutsu. He revealed Koji's scout toad recovered from the crashed airship, accusing Koji of being the traitor. Koji however did not deny it was his toad, explaining that Jigen suspected trouble during Kawaki's transfer and had Koji keep an eye on things. He also noted that Jigen had recently entered Konohagakure and spotted Koji, yet did nothing to him. Boro accepted Koji's explanation and ended the communication. Later, Koji snuck into a village archive, looking for data. However, the archive's digital files only went as far back to after the Fourth Shinobi World War. Older data remained only on physical scrolls in another site. Koji began manipulating the Konoha-nin into thinking he was trying to escape while making his way to the other site. His efforts were thwarted by Kakashi Hatake, who saw through his deception. He forced Koji to retreat, deciding the scroll was not crucial to his plans.

Later, Koji decided to return to the base. Upon arriving, he learned from Amado that Jigen had not returned to even 10% capacity. Also learning that others Inner were not at base, Koji decided he would use this opportunity to kill Jigen. Amado collected the essential for him to continue his work, and Koji summoned a toad. Delta arrived, intent on not letting them leave without Jigen's permission. Koji offered to deal with her, but Amado merely issued a shutdown command, making Koji wonder if his modifications contained similar measures. Koji gave him directions to follow, and reverse summoned his toad, with Amado, to the outskirts of Konoha, and proceeded inside the Kara facility. As Koji approached Jigen he secretly had a small toad act as a camera to relay the discussion to Amado. Quickly, the discussion became tense, as Jigen revealed he knew that Koji and Amado sabotaged the blimp, letting Kawaki escape. As he asked Koji what his true goal is, Koji attacked him, proclaiming he was created solely to destroy Jigen.

Jigen called him a tool for dedicating his life to one job. Koji however stood resolute, proudly declaring it as the way of the shinobi. Once luring Jigen into his trap, Koji summoned a massive wall of flames, knowing that the Kāma could not absorb naturally occurring flames void of chakra. As the flames killed Jigen, it forcibly activated the final stage of his Kāma and resurrected Isshiki Ōtsutsuki through his vessel. As Jigen was not fully compatible as a vessel, Isshiki's resurrection was unstable. Isshiki used his boost in power to instantly shrink and disperse the flames. Eventually, Isshiki's assault destroyed Koji's mask, leading Isshiki to learning of Koji's identity. Struggling, he activated Sage Mode. Upon realising that Sukunahikona required seeing a target, he managed to catch Isshiki off-guard with his Ultra-Big Ball Rasengan. Isshiki used Daikokuten to summon massive stones that crushed Koji's left arm and flank. Realising he could not win, Koji summoned the Steam Toad, which swallowed him and teleported away.

His desire to survive and retreat came from the sudden awakening of Ten Directions, learning of the future dangers still to come. 

 New Era: Part II 
After somehow restoring his body, at some point after Sasuke Uchiha was consumed by a Claw Grime, Koji made contact with Boruto through his toad. As the boy was currently being hunted by the Suna shinobi, Boruto accepted the toad's offer for help, to which Koji teleported Boruto to him in one of Orochimaru's abandoned hideouts. Explaining despite how he also was affected by Omnipotence, Koji already knew about the event coming because of his Ten Directions and was able to piece together the truth, including that Boruto is the real son of the Seventh Hokage. He warned Boruto about the coming future of the planet's destruction if the Claw Grimes were not stopped. He offered to help train Boruto, using his future knowledge to teach him all the skills techniques he would learn in the different potential futures. Believing Koji's tale, Boruto accepted the offer, but made it clear he will not aid Koji in killing Kawaki, as he still is determined to reunite his entire family, with Kawaki included. 

Over the next two years, Koji would share his knowledge of Boruto's possible futures to streamline and accelerate his training process. Eventually, the young missing-nin asked Koji why he doesn't just reveal what he knows about the future more people for help. Koji explained that the more people who know about the future, the less likely it will happen because they will no longer act on their natural instincts that would have led to that potential future, making it harder to dictate events leading to the desired future.

 Boruto's Return Arc 

When Code attacked Konoha with his Claw Grimes, Boruto placed a toad on him after he was cornered by him and Kawaki, fleeing to the dimension it was stored away. Koji, communicating through the toad placed on Code and the other with Boruto, confirmed the Ten-Tails' location. Upon Boruto's arrival, through the toad with Code, Koji noticed the Ten-Tails had disappeared. When Boruto got cornered by Claw Grime that had become sentient God Trees, Koji told him to retreat. Later, Koji met up with Boruto, advising him not to be rash.

Later, through his scout toads, Koji discovered two God Trees were attacking the village. He alerted Boruto to this, telling where to teleport. Afterwards, he contacted the Eighth Hokage through a toad to inform him that Boruto had returned and prompted him to set up the psychic channel again with Boruto.

After Boruto and several Konoha-nin were able to destroy Hidari, Boruto located the God Tree's Thorn Soul Bulb‎. He asked Koji for confirmation on the target, which he was certain is correct. However, Jura shot down Boruto to retrieve Hidari's Thorn Soul Bulb and retreated. As the Konoha-nin detained Boruto and the communication toad was destroyed by Kawaki, Koji became dismayed over the turn of those events. Fortunately, Shikamaru Nara, who came to see Boruto as an ally, orchestrated Boruto's escape.

 Matsuri and Ryū Arc 

Later, Shikamaru approached Ada about recent events, including deducing that Koji was Boruto's new ally, Koji approached the Eighth Hokage via his nin-toad, confirming Shikamaru's suspicions. He then warned Shikamaru about how one or both of the Human God Trees, Ryū and Matsuri would soon arrive in the Land of Wind. He told Shikamaru to send Team 7 to the Land of Wind and join with Yodo and Araya to deal with the threat. When Shikamaru asked why, Koji insisted that there was no room for questions to be answered if things were to work out. He also told Shikamaru to not let Boruto's younger sister, Himawari, outside of Konoha as Jura was after her, but seemed to value Konoha's literature and doesn't want to risk destroying it. To which, if Jura does show up in Konoha because of wanting books, they cannot provoke him or it will mean utter demise. Koji also applauded Shikamaru for trusting his heart to help Boruto. 

Following this, Koji left a toad with Ada and Shikamaru respectively to stay in contact. Days later when Team 7 met up with the Suna-nin, Koji asked Ada to inform him about the mission's progress, learning that both foreshadowed God Trees had appeared. As they sat patiently, Boruto grew concerned for his friends. Koji forbade Boruto from going no matter what, as all futures that he intervened in this battle led to his death. Keeping Boruto in check proved difficult for Koji when Ada revealed that Konohamaru was going to be devoured by Matsuri. 

As Ada revealed that Ryū was defeated by Sarada's sudden awakening of her Mangekyō Sharingan, it was learned that Yodo was gravely wounded in the fight. Boruto voiced his annoyance that Koji foresaw this and let it happen just to ensure Sarada's new power being obtained. When asked if there was any current future where Konohamaru would survive against Matsuri, Koji tried to sway Boruto from intervening, noting that Jura is always aware of all the events the other Human God Trees experience. Refusing to listen, Boruto teleported to save Konohamaru in time, but to Koji anger at the boy's recklessness.

Ada watched as Boruto strike down Matsuri, Jura indeed arrived to attack Boruto. She told Koji that Boruto was holding his own admirably against the Ten-Tails incarnation. Despite this, she doubted Boruto would win, which Koji confirmed. She said that Boruto should teleport away, but Koji explained that Boruto struggles with long-distance teleporting, making it harder when pressured by enemies. Likewise, Boruto is clearly distracting Jura so the others can secure Ryū and Matsuri's Thornsoul Bulbs, prophesizing that Boruto will die.

As Ada continued watching and proclaimed that Boruto's death was upon them, Ten Directions suddenly activated for Koji, showing him a new vision of Kawaki aiding Boruto. Koji was impressed by Boruto's resourcefulness, creating yet another potential future. Kawaki, with his body's parameters maxed out to offensive, was able to initially overwhelm Jura, but this newfound power proved not enough to defeat the God Tree leader. This prompted Boruto to teleport away with Kawaki. As Ada breathed in relief, Koji noted that this turn of events shifted how the future would turn out. To which, Mamushi, was on the move for Ada. 

 Mamushi Arc 

Koji had one of his toads approach Inojin Yamanaka. After confirming that Inojin held romantic feelings toward Himawari, he asked Inojin if he desired to protect her, which Inojin confirmed without hesitation. Following, Inojin was subsequently summoned before Koji, who requested his assistance. Inojin utilised the Mind Body Transmission Technique so Koji could secretly communicate with Shikamaru during a meeting with the village elders. Through this, Koji advised Shikamaru, warning him that of the risk of losing his position as Hokage, which would ultimately be to his detriment. During the meeting, Inojin expressed concern over violating protocol by facilitating the communication. Koji reassured him that no alternatives had been available under the circumstances, declaring that Inojin was now part of their group. 

Koji then inquired about Boruto’s arrangement with Momoshiki. Boruto avoided answering, which led to an argument between them. Boruto accused Koji of withholding information, including knowing his comrades had to be sacrificed during the fight in the Land of Wind. Koji responded that his decisions were made to prompt Sarada's Mangekyō Sharingan awakening, thereby preventing further casualties along the way. 

Koji later contacted Shikamaru once again, informing him that Mamushi would invade Konohagakure in one week with the intent of targeting Ada, while promising to advise him on Mamushi’s abilities.

After Shikamaru escaped suspicion of helping Boruto's escape, for the moment, Koji contacted Shikamaru again with Inojin's help. Koji explained how Mamushi's Division ability worked and how to best deal with it. When it was suggested they attack Mamushi before he arrives in the village, Koji said facing him in the village would be their best chance to defeat Mamushi because he would be more restricting in battle, fearing damage to Konoha and angering Jura, who came to enjoy the village's environment. Koji also urged Inojin to master a new technique within 2 days to save Himawari from being killed by the Human God Trees. 

Under Koji's guidance, Inojin was able to master his new technique, the Mind Body Transmission Formation, in a single day. After Boruto left to retrieve his modified sword from Sumire, As Boruto went to collect his modified sword from Sumire, Inojin asked Koji why they don't include more people on the future knowledge. He explained to Inojin how too many people knowing the future and in to great a detail can make people unintentionally act in ways that would take them off correct path to the desired future. 

Soon after, Mamushi arrived in the villag to get Ada. As Inojin contacted Shikamaru with his new technique, the Eighth Hokage assembled his secret team who all acknowledged Boruto as an ally. With Inojin's technique doubling to detect targets through their natural vibrations, they were able to locate Mamushi. Koji then contacted Boruto, instructing him to begin the assault on the Human God Tree.

As Mamushi became desperate and began replicating himself into the hundreds, it was learned that the Fire Daimyō's chief advisor, Kobu, was conducting an investigation to Boruto's recent escape. Having deduced that Shikamaru was responsible for it, Kobu began questioning the acting Hokage. Desperate to keep the flow of events in their favor, Koji had Inojin use his Mind Body Switch Technique on Kobu through his toad and the one on Shikamaru. After instructing Inojin to take Kobu to the roof, he coldly told the boy to make Kobu jump off and die. While Inojin was very against doing such an act to the innocent man, several Mamushis appeared before Kobu, asking for Aida's whereabouts. Taking matters into his own hand, Koji made his toad on Kobu attack the Mamushis, provoking them into attacking the advisor.

As the Mamushis attacked, Koji warned Inojin to break the connection or his mind would die with his target, but the boy refused to let an innocent man die, struggling to get Kobu to safety. Ultimately, Koji forcibly broke the connection. Now unable to do anything else, Inojin conceded to Koji's orders to resume his Mind Body Transmission Formation. At the same time, Kobu was ultimately saved by Boruto. Through a toad, Koji insisted that Kobu needs to die for their plans.

Ultimately, as the Mamushis multiplied into the thousands. Inojin asked Koji for future advice, only for the man to reveal that has no conscious control over his foresight as it is randomly activated. As Inojin was furious to learn that Koji was leading them blindly into battle against Mamushi, he realised that Koji's teaching him of Mind Body Transmission Formation was to guide events to this moment. Koji insisted that he had seen several futures like the one day now facing and the Mamushis' reduced intelligence was key to their victory. As Inojin understood that he was key to stopping Mamushi, Koji teleported the boy to the field. Exploiting the hive mind of the Divisions, Inojin transferred his mind into a Mamushi, subsequently taking control of all the Mamushis with their reduced intelligence. Inojin then attack Daemon with killing attack. This made Daemon reflect it back on the Mamushis and destroy their eyes, the only means for Mamushi to continue dividing. Following this, all the Mamushis collapsed and disintegrated.

As Boruto collects the Thornsoul Bulb with the intent to free Bug, Koji talked to Boruto with his toad. He revealed to Boruto that with recent events, if Boruto goes to free Bug, Code will be waiting there to kill the missing-nin. From there, one of three possibilities will happen: Boruto kills Code, Code escapes and later takes Sarada hostage, or Code escapes and decides to join Boruto's group in stopping the Human God Trees. However, Koji highly doubts the third possibility will happen.

Later, after Code ambushed Boruto and failed to kill him, Boruto noticed the Thornsoul Bulb rotted and Bug died. Despite Boruto's apology for taking too long, Koji only stated that Bug was the enemy and taught Boruto to witness the sight of a soul burning out.

 In Other Media 
 Video Games 

 Trivia 
 Koji Kashin shares his name with a folkloric magician believed to have lived in the late Muromachi period, though his historicity is debated. He is often depicted as a white-haired, bearded, elderly man in robes, and is said to have used his illusions to deceive and defraud prominent rulers such as Oda Nobunaga.
 In the manga, Koji assassinated Victor without a known reason. In the anime, it was an order from Jigen for Victor's unauthorised actions in the Land of Valleys and for betraying Jigen and copying Kawaki's data from Kara's databanks.