Title: Komugi
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Komugi
-----------------------

is a genin from Konohagakure.

 Personality 
Komugi seemed to get happy easily even crying tears of joy when he found his team passed the first part of his second Chūnin Exams. He, like his teammates, is overconfident in his abilities.

 Appearance 
Komugi has spiky black hair and a small, pointed goatee. He has squinting eyes and wears a simple two-toned t-shirt, pants and the village's forehead protector.

 Abilities 
He has some taijutsu skills as he fought hand-to-hand against the Sunagakure ninja on the night before the exam, not finishing the fight with some girl when Fū burst into the hall. At the same time, not long after this, he got a kick in the face from Ajisai. Like the members of his team, Komugi is quite tough and fast, being one of the thirty people who managed to reach Sunagakure from Konohagakure in three days.Naruto: Shippūden episode 398 

 Part I 
 Chūnin Exams 

He and the rest of his team entered the Chūnin Exams, but, when Ibiki Morino told them that if they failed, they would never get the opportunity to retake the examination, he decided to quit. As a result, the rest of his team was also disqualified.

 Interlude 
 In Naruto's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths 

In the anime, about two years later, Komugi and his team partake in the joint Chūnin Exams co-sponsored by Konoha and Sunagakure. For the first phase of the exams, Komugi and his teammates were split into different rooms, with him being placed in room one. After settling in, Shikamaru Nara, the first exam proctor, explained the goal of the written test on a monitor.Naruto: Shippūden episode 396 His team ultimately passed since their combined score equalled 100 points as it was supposed to, and by leaving the bonus question unanswered. However, a preliminary round had to be held to lessen the many participants there were. The preliminary round involved a race to Suna where only the first 30 teams to arrive at the destination would qualify for the second phase.Naruto: Shippūden episode 397 

Ultimately, his team were among the first 30 teams to make it. The next day, the second exam proctor, Temari, announced the start of the second round taken place within Demon Desert. Later, the team again found the Ame-kunoichi, battered and one teammate short. While seeing this as an easy win for a scroll, Team Guy stepped in to help. While shocked that a fellow Konoha team would stand against them to side with an Ame team, Neji Hyūga insisted that they needed their help and ultimately, there is no alliance in the exams beyond one's own team. This prompted Komugi and his team to retreat now that the numbers were against them.Naruto: Shippūden episode 405

Ultimately, the Chūnin Exams were ended early before starting the finals due to controversy happening in the second exam. Instead, it was decided by Gaara that a report on each participant would be sent to their respective village leader for them to decide if they would be promoted. Komugi was later disappointed to hear from Tsunade he would have to try again next year as his performance didn't prove enough.Naruto: Shippūden episode 413

 Trivia 
  means "wheat".