Title: Komushi
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Komushi
-----------------------

was a young shinobi from Sunagakure. 

 Background 

Komushi grew up during the tenure of the Third Kazekage, where he primarily worked as a messenger for Chiyo to her grandson Sasori, with whom he had a friendly relationship. During a border-patrol mission Komushi was wounded and subsequently lost an arm. This was later replaced by Sasori with that of a puppet as a prosthetic limb. Later he ingested some of Sasori's poison by mistake and died while Chiyo tried to save him. Because he knew Sasori would be blamed, Komushi's last request was that Sasori would not be blamed for his own careless mistake. Due to his mother's pleading to bring Komushi back to her, Sasori later turned him into a human puppet.

 Personality 

Komushi was a friendly and eager shinobi, who craved recognition and admiration as a shinobi, akin to that which Sasori received for his outstanding puppets. He showed great care for his friend and confided in him his pains and goals; in his dying moments, he pleaded Chiyo to not blame Sasori for his death. Komushi also yearned not to be treated like a child by his mother.

 Appearance 
Komushi had chin-length brown hair, a square jaw and large green eyes. For an outfit he wore a green jacket with rolled up sleeves over a dark-grey under-shirt and dark shorts. He had a shuriken holster was strapped to his right thigh. After an accident on a mission, he had a puppet arm surgically attached in place of his lost right arm.

 Abilities 

While seemingly unskilled, Komushi's attached puppet arm could extend a hidden blade from the palm to be used offensively, his puppet arm was coated in Sasori's special made poison. Komushi must have been able to use chakra threads and the Puppet Technique to be able to use this puppet arm.

He also seemed knowledgeable in herbs since he could distinguish the rarity of the herbs on Sasori's poison ingredients list.

 Trivia 
 When written as 小虫, Komushi literally means "midge".