Title: Konashi Nerikiri
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Konashi_Nerikiri
-----------------------

is an Academy student of Konohagakure.

 Background 
Konashi comes from a family of shinobi and wagashi artisans.Boruto episode 265

 Personality 

Konashi is a dedicated, but shy, boy. Despite being willing to enter a sweets competition, he struggled with asking Kae her opinion on his sweets until the competition's deadline. He was unable to ask her directly, so he left her a note asking to meet her in private. Later, after witnessing Kawaki defeat a flame bear, he developed enough confidence to ask her directly, and developed a deep admiration of Kawaki.

 Abilities 
Konashi is quite skilled in making sweets, coming from a family of sweet artisans. When Kae, herself skilled in making sweets and having experience with famous chefs, tried his sweets, she commented positively on their taste and design.

 New Era 
 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

Konashi attended the Academy opening ceremony as part of a new class. His classroom was put under the care of new teacher Hana Kaka. His class included many children of famous people, including the daughter of an acting duo, the daughter of the Seventh Hokage, and Kae Yukiwari, the princess of the Land of Bamboo. The class also included Kawaki, a noticeably older student.

When Hana had the class separated in teams for a practical lesson, Konashi was placed on a team with Mimi and Kande. He tried talking to Kae when the lesson began, but gave up, unwilling to ask her for advice in front of everyone. During lunch, he was impressed by Kande's use of Lightning Release to start their fire. Konashi sent his request to meet with Kae in private on a note, but later ran when coming across a flame bear. When Kawaki found him, Konashi explained the situation, and was deeply impressed by Kawaki's defeat of the bear. He later asked Kae for her opinion directly.

Konashi's class had to put on a play about the Sannin. When Eiki's struggle with Kawaki damaged the stage, Konashi joined in the repair efforts.

The day of the festival, Konashi was responsible for a snack booth. He was overjoyed when Chōchō Akimichi enjoyed his sweets, and took her criticism to heart, vowing to improve. When the festival received a terrorist threat, Konashi stayed inside.

Following the terrorist attack, Konashi joined his class-mates in visiting Hana, who was injured in it, in the hospital. He presented her with some personally made sweets. Later, Konashi was amused by Sōsha's story about Eiki's crush.

Later, following Hana being hospitalised from the terrorist attack, Konashi joined his class in welcoming back their teacher. To make up for the festival being cancelled, Hana arranged for the class to undergo survival training on an uninhabited island. However, Kikuchiyo was injured and their food supplies vanished, stoking fear about a rumour of killer missing-nin settling on the island. Everyone formed groups to scavenge food, and later to look for Neon's damaged drone. By night, everyone enjoyed their food, Konashi offering Kae and Kawaki his latest dish, asking for their opinion on it.

Attracted by an explosion, the class encountered Kawaki and Himawari, who revealed that Hana, actually an assassin, had killed Kae. Himawari pointed out that her actions made more sense if Hana wanted to keep Kae as a hostage. Working together, the students tracked Kae and Hana to a cave, Konashi smelling the pastry he gave Kae earlier and finding a crumb trail. Finding the situation too dangerous for the students, Kawaki revealed himself as a shinobi, and credited them for helping find Kae. Eiki still believed there was something they could do, leading them to the docks, hoping to get word of the situation out. They came across Sai, who came to the island with Team 25 after discovering Hana's Land of Bamboo background. Upon finding Hana defeated, her teacher personality struggled against the assassin one, eventually prevailing with the encouragement of her students and regaining control. As Kae had to return home, the class finally put on the Sannin play, and later saw her off at the train station.

 Trivia 
  is a type of Japanese sweets.