Title: Konohamaru Sarutobi
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Konohamaru_Sarutobi
-----------------------

is a shinobi of Konohagakure's Sarutobi clan. After later becoming a jōnin, he becomes the leader of his own genin team. He strives to one day become Hokage after his idol and close friend, Naruto Uzumaki.

 Background 
Konohamaru was born into the Sarutobi clan, raised by his Anbu parents,Boruto: Road to B, page 2 and was named after Konoha by his grandfather. As a child, Konohamaru was never referred to by his name by the villagers, only ever called  because of his relationship with the Third Hokage. Wanting to be acknowledged as a person and not simply the Hokage's grandson, Konohamaru began trying to defeat Hiruzen in order to replace him as Hokage. He also avoided his personal teacher, Ebisu, due to his being "too strict".

 Personality 

While close to his grandfather and loving him dearly, Konohamaru had a certain dislike in his status as the Hokage's grandson: he is often spared from being punished for his actions and will goad people who are unwilling to take a hand against him. When Naruto shows no restraint towards him and freely hits him, Konohamaru becomes impressed by him and declares Naruto to be both his rival and role model, variously calling him  and . Like Naruto, Konohamaru tends to be loud, headstrong, spends an inordinate amount of time inventing perverted ninjutsu, and, in the anime, even mimics Naruto's kabuki ninja registration photograph when taking his own.Naruto Shippūden episode 160 omake He also ends many of his sentences with , much like Naruto does with "dattebayo".

Konohamaru also picks up a number of good qualities from Naruto, such as the realisation that becoming Hokage is a long process that there are no shortcuts for. This commits Konohamaru to his studies in the Academy and makes the job of his tutor, Ebisu, considerably easier. In his quest to rise to Naruto's level, Konohamaru masters a number of jōnin-level jutsu while still a genin and adopts a refusal to run from a fight, even against superior opponents. In the anime, Konohamaru eventually moves past his competition with Naruto for the Hokage mantle, deciding instead that he will strive to become Hokage only after Naruto has had his turn.Naruto: Shippūden episode 1 While most of Konohamaru's reverence for Naruto is well-deserved, some of Konohamaru's praise for him is owed more to his own gullibility and denseness: when he trips during their first meeting he assumes Naruto did something, unwilling to blame his own clumsiness; Konohamaru's Cloak of Invisibility Technique is constantly discovered by Naruto not because of Naruto's skill but rather because Konohamaru's execution of his disguises were so poor. Naruto encourages this praise to a degree, never refusing the compliments and never correcting Konohamaru's perception of him as a lady's man.

Konohamaru has shown immense emotional endurance, recovering from tragedies close to his heart, such as the deaths of his grandfather and his uncle, Asuma Sarutobi, in a relatively short time, displaying an ability to cope with heart-shattering grief that goes beyond his years. This aspect of his personality is likely in emulation of Naruto's take on the Will of Fire, as Naruto also had to cope with immense loss and depression at a young age, but still stuck to his optimistic and wilful outlook.

Years later, he became considerably more mature and appreciative to the task at hand, though his admiration for Naruto can still show: Konohamaru becomes emotional at the prospect that he can mentor Naruto's son, Boruto Uzumaki, in the same way that Naruto mentored him.Boruto: Naruto the Movie He also sympathises with Boruto's plight of people always regarding by his relationship to the Seventh Hokage. His compassion for Boruto has grown to brotherly-love, secretly loving how Boruto would often refer to him as "Big Brother" even though he officially insists that the boy should use "Sensei" after Boruto enters the Academy, and wants greatly to see Boruto flourish. He has also formed a strong bond with Boruto's aunt, Hanabi Hyūga, from their similar compassion for Boruto.Boruto episode 50 Konohamaru is shown to care greatly for his students, especially Boruto. He was overcome with joy when Boruto asked Konohamaru to teach him the Rasengan as Naruto was the one who taught it to him. Despite his great care for his students, in the anime, he was shocked and initially conflicted when the revelation that Mitsuki was the son of Orochimaru, the man who killed Konohamaru's grandfather, having a difficult time in gathering his true feelings until Mirai spoke with him of it.

After having his memories of Boruto and Kawaki switched by Ada's Omnipotence, like most of the rest of the world, Konohamaru grew to hold a grudge and anger at Boruto for his false crime of killing Naruto. Gradually afterwards, as noted by Sarada and Sumire, he become irreducible and more hard-headed, especially when it came to giving Boruto the benefit of the doubt.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 1 Surprisingly, despite his resentment against Boruto he reluctantly cooperated with the missing-nin to defeat Hidari after the latter explained the relation between the humanoid Divine Trees and their sealed victims. Later, however, after Boruto saved his life against Matsuri, Konohamaru began to trust Boruto again, openly not viewing him as an enemy. He even admitted this to Kobu, who was interrogating him on how Boruto escaped, despite such a declaration made Konohamaru suspicious. By Kobu's analysis, Konohamaru is terrible at lying.

Ada suspects that Konohamaru has feelings for Moegi Kazamatsuri, but his devotion to being a ninja prevents him from further developing their relationship. Jura also theorizes that it's these feelings of love towards Moegi that causes him to hesitate in killing Matsuri.Boruto Two Blue Vortex Chapter 20

 Appearance 

Konohamaru has short spiky dark brown hair, black (blue in Boruto) eyes, and a small chip in his tooth. In some of Konohamaru's appearances in the anime, he is depicted with blush marks on his cheeks. When he's first introduced he wears a grey helmet with a hole at the top for his hair to stick out of. He replaces this with Naruto's old goggles for the rest of Part I, replacing them with his own forehead protector in Part II. He has worn a blue scarf for most of his life. While the scarf was long and dragged behind him during his childhood, it became progressively shorter.

Konohamaru's Part I clothing consists of grey shorts and a yellow shirt with a red Konoha symbol printed on it. His Part II outfit is quite similar, with longer pants and a pale green jacket with a dark green stripe down the middle. During the Rinne Festival, his outfit consists of a grey/black zip-up jacket, dark grey pants, sandals, and bandages around both his arms. For Naruto and Hinata Hyūga's wedding, he wears a formal attire. As an adult, he is fairly tall with a narrower face and well-built in frame. He wears a small blue scarf with dark blue pants, black sandals and while on duty, he wears a flak jacket with a red armband on his left arm that has his clan's emblem on.

 Abilities 
While Konohamaru's performance in the Academy was originally rather poor, failing to properly use basic techniques, it was mostly due to laziness and eagerness for quick results. However, upon learning from Naruto's example of true perseverance, his talents began to bloom from regular training. As a genin, Konohamaru earned praise from Temari for pressuring her, and also managed to defeat Pain's Naraka Path.Naruto chapter 428, pages 4-7 By adulthood, he became one of Konoha's top and most skilled jōnin.The Last Day at the Ninja Academy! Regarded as a geniusBoruto Volume 9 Shinobi Secrets Column #3: Shinobi and Formations he is an elite of the Sarutobi clan with top-class abilities.V-JUMP Boruto Ninja Directory He was also able to defeat Jūgo when he went out of control.Boruto: Naruto Next Generations episode 99

 Ninjutsu 

As a student, he mostly learned techniques that had little or no practical use. After graduating, Konohamaru gained a series of techniques more suited for battle, such as the Multiple Shadow Clone Technique,Naruto OVA Chūnin Exam on Fire! Naruto vs. Konohamaru! and Shuriken Shadow Clone Technique.Naruto: Shippūden episode 234 While a genin, Naruto taught Konohamaru the Rasengan.Naruto chapter 426, page 16Naruto chapter 428, pages 4-5 Initially requiring a shadow clone to perform the technique, Konohamaru eventually learned to perform it alone with a single hand. Konohamaru is able to create the Big Ball Rasengan, without prior instructions on it. Later, he can even perform it in both hands, which has proven strong enough to be able to severely damage a Human God Tree.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 20, page 25-27

As an adult, he became adept in a variety of fighting styles and ninja skills. He can summon giant toads,Boruto episode 4 and ninja monkeys to aid him.Boruto episode 119 He is also adept at fūinjutsu, able to counter seals placed on him by an enemy,Boruto chapter 23, page 9 break barriers, and likewise able to subdue demons with it. He can also channel chakra into his weapons for additional power.Boruto episode 189

 Nature Transformation 

Prior to the Fourth Shinobi World War, Konohamaru learned to use the Fire, Wind and Yang Release of nature transformation. Showing noticeable adeptness in Fire Release, he can use his uncle's Fire Release: Ash Pile Burning. He would later learn his clan's Fire Release: Great Flame Technique, as well as his grandfather's Fire Release: Fire Dragon Flame Bullet.Boruto: Naruto Next Generations, Volume 4's Konohamaru's Profile As an adult, he can use Wind Release to strengthen the penetrative power of his attacks, and even apply it to and expand his Rasengan,Boruto chapter 1, page 18 the latter of which prior only Naruto Uzumaki could accomplish. He can also create a powerful wind barrier around his Rasengan that is strong enough to block a Chidori-strike from the Human God Tree, Hidari.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 11, page 30Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 12, page 23 In the anime, he can also use Lightning Release, able to flow a stream of electricity around himself that will shock anyone who comes into contact with him.Boruto episode 36 Also in the anime, he can use Earth Release to tunnel through the ground.Boruto anime, episode 187

 Bukijutsu 
In the anime, by adulthood, Konohamaru is well-versed in a variety of weapon styles. He began using a pair of trench-blades knuckles, like his late uncle, and was capable of fighting Jūgo with it long enough to snap him out of his rampage.Boruto episode 99 This also includes using the Flying Swallow, able to deflect enemy blasts with it. Like his grandfather, Konohamaru is proficient in bōjutsu. When aided by the transformed Enra, Konohamaru is able to repel multiple attacks with a flurry of spins. He can also use a staff as a medium for his techniques.

 Physical and Chakra Prowess 
In adulthood, he has shown to be highly skilled in taijutsu, able to easily defeat several academy students during the Genin Exams at once, including the Sharingan-wielding Sarada Uchiha.Boruto episode 37 He could perfectly counter the attacks of two mercenary ninja, while in mid-jump holding a person.Boruto episode 41 He is also dexterous enough to weave hand seals with his hands tied behind his back.Boruto episode 228 As seen from his Rasengan, Konohamaru has highly refined chakra control. Likewise, he also has immense reserves of chakra.Boruto episode 168, Kakashi notes one needs immense reserves of chakra to create a Big Ball Rasengan.

 Part I 
 Prologue — Land of Waves 

Konohamaru barges into his grandfather, the Third Hokage's, office intent on finally defeating him and thus replacing him as Hokage. He immediately trips on entering and assumes that Naruto, the only other person in the room, is responsible. Having heard that his grandfather was previously defeated by Naruto's Sexy Technique, Konohamaru approaches Naruto for training. Naruto agrees and they become friends during their time together. Concerned about Naruto's negative influence, Konohamaru's tutor, Ebisu, tries to separate them, a goal he becomes more adamant about when Konohamaru tries using the Sexy Technique on him. When this doesn't work, Naruto defeats Ebisu with his Harem Technique. Deeply impressed by Naruto's words and actions, Konohamaru decides to start emulating Naruto in the hopes that he will one day surpass him.

Some time after this, Konohamaru realised there is no shortcut to being Hokage and trained with tremendous dedication. When Konohamaru passed what Naruto taught him onto Ebisu, Ebisu saw Naruto as a shinobi of Konoha, rather than the Nine-Tailed Fox.

 Chūnin Exams 

Konohamaru and his friends, Udon and Moegi, approach Naruto as he's returning from a mission. Although he previously promised to "play ninja" with them, Naruto tries to get out of it by claiming he needs to train. Naruto's teammate, Sakura Haruno overhears this and asks what "playing ninja" entails. Not knowing who she is, Konohamaru assumes she's Naruto's girlfriend, which Naruto doesn't deny. Sakura punches Naruto out of disgust and, when Konohamaru, Udon, and Moegi call her names for attacking him, she attacks them as well. While running for safety they collide with Kankurō and Temari, Sunagakure shinobi. Kankurō tries to beat up Konohamaru out of annoyance, but he's saved by Sasuke Uchiha. Konohamaru is afterwards disappointed by Naruto, especially in comparison to Sasuke and the Suna-nin.

Sometime later, Iruka Umino takes Konohamaru's Academy class to the Hokage Rock for a history lesson about the role of Hokage. The Third Hokage happens across them during their lesson and tells them how important it is to protect those precious to them. When asked who is precious to him, the Third singles out Konohamaru (and the rest of Konoha's citizens), making Konohamaru smile. Later, in the anime, as Naruto is heading to the final round matches for the Chūnin Exams, Konohamaru offers to take him on a shortcut. Each of the shortcuts actually take longer and Naruto only barely reaches his destination in time.

 Konoha Crush

Konohamaru and his class are evacuated to the Hokage Rock during the invasion of Konoha. When the Third Hokage's likeness on the Hokage Rock suddenly cracks, Konohamaru worries about his grandfather. Several days after the invasion, Konohamaru attends the Third's funeral, where he is comforted by Iruka. In the anime, some time after the funeral, Konohamaru met Mugino, who was given an invitation by the Third Hokage to join Konoha some time ago. The two soon became friends.

 Search for Tsunade 

In the anime, Konohamaru is very upset by his grandfather's death, so much so that he's unwilling to play with Naruto. When he learns that Tsunade is going to become the next Hokage, Konohamaru feared that she was unworthy of the title and that her presence would cause everyone to forget about all the Third's contributions to Konoha. He tries barring access to the Hokage's office, but she uses her considerable strength to get in anyway. This, coupled with her medical knowledge and her Will of Fire, convinces Konohamaru that she is worthy of succeeding his grandfather.

 Academy Student Lead Mission 

In the anime, Naruto leads Konohamaru, Udon, and Moegi on a survival exercise. Naruto's leadership and navigational skills are very lacking and they become lost, forcing Iruka to come find them.

 Interlude 
 In Naruto's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths 

Two years after Naruto leaves Konoha to train, Konoha prepares for another Chūnin Exam. Because Naruto is away and thus won't be able to compete, Konohamaru tries to enter on his behalf, disguising himself as a taller Naruto so that he can take the exams, pass, and then Naruto will be a chūnin when he returns to the village. He is discovered before he even has a chance to enter by Neji Hyūga. Although he understands Konohamaru's reasons, Neji insists that he shouldn't worry since Naruto will come back when he's ready. Konohamaru returns to his Academy class, eager for Naruto's return.

 Part II 
 Kazekage Rescue Mission 

After a two-and-a-half year absence, Naruto returns to Konoha. Konohamaru is among the first people to greet him and demonstrates a more voluptuous Sexy Technique. Naruto is unimpressed, claiming to have created even more perverted techniques while he's been gone. Konohamaru, now on a genin under Ebisu's leadership, starts to be sent on their first missions; in the anime, these missions are oddly reminiscent of Naruto's early missions, including finding the same runaway cat.

 Twelve Guardian Ninja 

In the anime, Team Ebisu was assigned their first A-rank mission to escort Konoha's villagers to safety during an attack by Furido's 4-Man Team.

 Akatsuki Suppression Mission 

Konohamaru attends his uncle, Asuma Sarutobi's, funeral.

 Three-Tails' Appearance 

In the anime, Konohamaru watches as Naruto practices cooperation ninjutsu with Gamatatsu and Gamakichi.

 Itachi Pursuit Mission 

Konohamaru and a shadow clone wait for Naruto outside of Ramen Ichiraku. Once he emerges, the two Konohamarus use Sexy: Girl on Girl Technique; Naruto approves but Sakura Haruno is disgusted and violently reprimands him (in the anime, it is Moegi instead of Sakura). In the manga, Konohamaru responds with Sexy: Boy on Boy Technique; Sakura approves but Naruto is disgusted and violently reprimands him. Sakura tries to make an excuse when she realises how she reacted, but Konohamaru's suspicions that Sakura is just as much a pervert as he is are confirmed.

 Pain's Assault 

During Pain's Assault, Konohamaru stumbles across Pain's Naraka Path interrogating villagers about Naruto's whereabouts. Konohamaru tries to get away unnoticed, but he accidentally makes a sound. Ebisu confronts the Naraka Path so that Konohamaru can escape. He is quickly defeated but refuses to give up Naruto's location. Before the Naraka Path can kill him, Konohamaru attacks it, having decided that running away isn't something that Naruto would do and therefore neither will he. He sends a shadow clone to engage the Naraka Path and keep it distracted while he and another shadow clone attack from behind with a Rasengan.

The Naraka Path ultimately retreats and the village is shortly afterwards destroyed by Pain. Despite this, Naruto returns to Konoha and defeats Pain. Konohamaru joins the rest of the village in celebrating the victory.

 Past Arc: The Locus of Konoha 

In the anime, Konohamaru, Udon, and Moegi do a report about Naruto and ask Neji Hyūga about Naruto's accomplishments over the years. They also listen as Neji details a mission he went on during the Konoha Crush.

 Five Kage Summit 

Konohamaru meets Naruto in the forest to compare their Sexy Techniques, a contest to which Konohamaru admits defeat. This, however, was only a ploy to lure out the Root members following Naruto so that Kakashi Hatake can neutralise them. Before leaving for the Five Kage Summit, Naruto congratulates Konohamaru for his performance against the Naraka Path. In the anime, Konohamaru and Moegi later work on a "Konoha Hero Newspaper". He approaches Naruto for an interview when he returns from the Kage Summit. Naruto declines and Konohamaru can't help but notice that something is different about him.

 Paradise Life on a Boat 

In the anime, Konohamaru tries to join the Allied Shinobi Forces so that he can help during the Fourth Shinobi World War. When the Fifth Hokage refuses to let him, he tries to prove himself by defeating Temari in a fight. After he suffers repeated defeats, Konohamaru attacks her with the Rasengan as a last resort, but is stopped by Shikamaru Nara, who was alerted by Udon and Moegi.

 Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation 

In the anime, Konohamaru attends a council of Konoha's remaining security forces that is convened by Ebisu. After the meeting, Konohamaru gathers the village's genin and tries organising them for the challenges they may face. As a group of Sumo Wrestlers attack the village, Konohamaru assists the Allied Mothers Force with driving them away.

 Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes 

After the Infinite Tsukuyomi was cast, he along with everyone within Konoha was captured by the Ten-Tails roots. Ultimately, Konohamaru and the rest of the world were freed from the genjutsu by Naruto and Sasuke, after they ended the war.

 Blank Period 
 The Last: Naruto the Movie 

Two years after the end of the Fourth Shinobi World War, Konohamaru went through his grandfather's belongings. While doing so he found a scarf knitted by Naruto's mother, which he gave to Naruto to remember her by. They wandered around the village afterwards and Konohamaru helped Naruto carry all the Rinne Festival gifts he receives.

 Konoha Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding 

In the anime, Konohamaru decided to present Naruto and Hinata Hyūga a video compilation of many of their friends wishing them a happy marriage as his wedding gift. While the majority of the footage went smoothly, Konohamaru struggled to get Iruka's footage, as the latter couldn't find the proper way to speak about Naruto due to his own insecurity of his place in Naruto's life. After finally managing to get Iruka's footage, Konohamaru helped Moegi and Udon set up a receiving desk at the wedding, and later attended the ceremony himself.

 New Era: Part I 
On the day that Naruto is to be inaugurated as the Seventh Hokage, he is absent for the ceremony. This forced Konohamaru to stand in for him so that the inauguration can proceed as planned. For a period of time, Konohamaru served as an Anbu.Boruto episode 82 At some point, in the anime, Konohamaru became a teacher at the Academy.Boruto episode 1 He also became acquainted to Mount Myōboku, entering into a summoning contract with ninja toads that reside there.

 Academy Entrance Arc 

In the anime, on the day of the entrance ceremony at the Academy, Konohamaru subdued Boruto Uzumaki after he damaged the Hokage Rock, and reminded him from today to address him as sensei. Later, after having taught Shino Aburame's class about the Summoning Technique, he subdued Nue with his Rasengan after Boruto summoned it at the Academy. Afterwards, Konohamaru wondered how Boruto was able to summon such a creature.

 Sarada Uchiha Arc 

On the day of a Five Kage Summit, Boruto defaced the Hokage Rock. After Naruto caught him and stopped him, Konohamaru scolded Boruto for what he did and also for trying to attack his own father with a shuriken. Iruka encouraged Konohamaru to go easy on him. In the anime, wondering who was training in the forest, Konohamaru arrived in time to catch Sarada from collapsing. Asking him to teach her about the Sharingan, he informed her of the uniqueness of the dōjutsu. Having learned she was aiming to become Hokage, Konohamaru told Sarada that would make them rivals.

 Graduation Exams Arc 

In the anime, after Shino's class passed the written portion of the Genin Exams, Konohamaru participated as a proctor in the exam's 24 hour practical portion alongside Shino, Anko Mitarashi and Kakashi Hatake, with the teachers wearing special markers on their chest that if hit would eliminate the wearer. As the test began, Konohamaru swiftly defeated all the students who attempted to eliminate him. While on lookout during the night, he noticed movement in the distance, and decided to investigate while aware it was likely a trap. Fending off the student's attacks with taijutsu, Sarada while disguised as Boruto faced him and caught him in genjutsu undetected, during which the group of students attempt to restrain him. Breaking free, Denki Kaminarimon managed to hit Konohamaru's target thanks to the genjutsu, resulting in him being eliminated. Afterwards, the eliminated proctors watched the students face Kakashi, and after, looked on as he passed them all.

After the genin promotions, Konohamaru went to the Academy, where he was placed in charge of Boruto, Sarada and Mitsuki in Team 3. As Sarada was unhappy with being on a team with Boruto, Konohamaru informed the pair that Naruto will reconsider the team match ups if they hand in an appeal. Attempting to get to the Hokage, Mirai blocked the genin's path, leading to Konohamaru asking his cousin to go easy on them. As the pair defeated Mirai, Konohamaru caught her before she fell into a ravine. Afterwards, Sarada and Boruto worked out their differences, and approached Naruto to request their team's designation be changed to Team 7, which he allowed.

 Genin Mission Arc 

In the anime, for Team 7's first mission, they were assigned a D-rank to aid the Green Banks village who are being attacked by bandits for their crops. Upon arriving and meeting with Kiri, she informs the team that their attacks are actually shinobi. Considering whether or not to continue the mission despite the deception, the village was attacked by the missing-nin, leading to Konohamaru rushing to save Boruto from Ashimaru before he retreated. As Konohamaru realised that there was more being hidden, he confronted Kiri, and was informed the attackers were after the deed to the village's bridge. Later, the village was attacked, during which Kiri is abducted. Pursuing the attackers, Konohamaru traded the deed for Kiri. Setting their sights on killing Team 7, Konohamaru fought against Hidari and Ashimaru while the genin fled with Kiri. Caught in Hidari's trap, Ashimaru departed to face the genin, during which Konohamaru manged to free himself and frighten Hidari into submission. Having kept Kiri safe and completing their mission, the team returned to Konoha.

 Byakuya Gang Arc 

In the anime, after his team dealt with a bank robber, Team 7 investigated Konoha Bank being robbed by the Byakuya Gang with Kōtarō Fūma. Later, after the thieves spread lies and orchestrated a protest against the Kaminarimon Company, Team 7 was tasked with deescalating the crowds. After it was discovered genjutsu was behind the village protest, removing it along with Naruto's speech quelled the protest.

 Versus Momoshiki Arc 

In the anime, Team 7 was later assigned to follow a trail of bandits who stole from the Thunder Train. When they arrived at the mines where they thieves were last seen, they learned that one of the thieves was arrested after he had come out completely traumatised, claiming that "the white one" killed his allies. This concerned Konohamaru, wondering if it could be a White Zetsu from the Fourth Shinobi World War. Team 7 decided to investigate more carefully. Inside, they found the three other thieves brutally killed, and soon after met the culprit, a mutated White Zetsu.

During a mission to capture a bear attacking a nearby village, Konohamaru uses the newly-invented Kote to subdue it. While demonstrating it afterwards he accidentally destroys a farm, causing him to be lectured by Naruto once they return to the village. Konohamaru tries to enter his team in the upcoming Chūnin Exams. Although Sarada and Mitsuki are interested, Boruto is not. He has a change of heart after meeting Sasuke Uchiha and approaches Konohamaru to teach him the Rasengan, a prerequisite to train under Sasuke. Konohamaru enthusiastically agrees and immediately begins instructing him in how to use it. After days of hard training, he is ultimately successful in teaching Boruto. This later prompted Sasuke, who tested Boruto into learning the Rasengan, to accept Boruto's request to be his student. Sasuke got Konohamaru's agreement to let him take over in training Boruto, while also thanking Konohamaru for his good work in training Sarada in his absence.

Later, Konohamaru watches his students' matches during the Chūnin Exams' final rounds a few weeks later. When the exams are attacked by Kinshiki and Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki, Konohamaru helped evacuate people from the arena. A few days later, the team is assigned to capture the same bear.

 Sasuke Shinden: The Teacher's Star Pupil 

Konohamaru appears in this novel.

 Chōchō Arc 

In the anime, when the lead actors of a popular TV drama, Tomaru and Ashina received a death threat if they continued filming their show, Team 7 was assigned to protect the actors alongside Team 10. Konohamaru and his team were assigned to watch Ashina, who much to their chagrin was a prima donna who basically made the team act as her personal servants.

Later during filming, a masked Ame-nin attacked the set. After the assailant escaped, Konohamaru and Moegi investigated events, determining that either the assailant thoroughly researched the place from how seamlessly he got through security or he had an inside informant.

Later, masked attacker managed to capture Tomaru and left a ransom demanded of 20 million ryō which Ashina was to deliver. Before the exchange, Konohamaru managed to find and capture the attacker. Still suspicious of the situation, Konohamaru feigned returning to the village while instead disguising himself as the attack to complete the transaction. Ultimately, he tricked Ashina to slip up and reveal herself as the mastermind behind the assaults as she desperately wanted to rekindle her fame as an actress. After a failed suicide attempt on her part, Ashina accepted defeat and peacefully surrendered to be arrested.

 Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc 

In the anime, when two chūnin gate guards were attacked by unknown assailants, the village was put on lockdown. Konohamaru joined Naruto and his advisers when overseeing Ino probe one of the guard's mind for answers, learning that Mitsuki had left willingly with the attackers. When Naruto revealed to the others Mitsuki was in fact Orochimaru's son, much outrage followed from learning that Naruto would permit an offspring of the man who killed the Third Hokage live in Konohagakure, let alone keep it a secret. Naruto rationalised this on the grounds that Orochimaru's conduct as changed from before and that his aid in investigating the Ōtsutsuki. Despite this, noting the unpredictable nature of Orochimaru, the meeting ended with deeming the Oto-born boy as a threat.

Later, Konohamaru decided to confront Naruto about how he hid from Konohamaru the truth that Mitsuki is the son of the man who killed Konohamaru's grandfather. Naruto insisted that he wanted Konohamaru to first get know Mitsuki before learning the truth on the grounds that Mitsuki himself had no part in the murder of the Third Hokage. This left Konohamaru conflicted, as he indeed came to care very much for Mitsuki as his student. Regardless, he insisted on joining the effort to track down and retrieve Mitsuki. His request however was denied as he was too emotional on the matter.

Still conflicted on how to deal with Mitsuki, Mirai approached him, having also learned the truth about Mitsuki and felt a similar nature about the loss of their grandfather. Later, when learning that extreme punishment may come Mitsuki's way for his desertion, Konohamaru insisted that he be the one to bring Mitsuki back. While there was some concern about Konohamaru being given this job, Naruto agreed. In addition, because they had no approval from the Tsuchikage to enter Iwagakure, Konohamaru was required to remain unseen and hide all ties from Konohagakure, donning his old Anbu outfit before setting out. Along the way, he found multiple Konoha-nin completely immobilised.

Upon arriving in Iwagakure, he found Akatsuchi being attacked by the Akuta, and saved him. As Konohamaru ventured deeper into the village, he found that a certain area was heavily guarded by the Akuta, concluding that the enemy base must be near. His efforts eventually found a secret underground laboratory, shocked at the work that was being conducted. He was then approached by Mitsuki. While considering to attack his student, Konohamaru instead unmasked himself and confronted Mitsuki on his actions. The boy plainly said he was doing what he believed was right to do and promised to answer for his actions. Trusting his Mitsuki, Konohamaru decided to watch as Mitsuki sabotaged the base with explosives. Afterwards, Konohamaru freed the Fourth Tsuchikage, letting her go to save her village.

Ultimately, the Fabrications were defeated by the combined effort of Konohamaru's students and Ōnoki, who passed away from the effort. As the Hokage and an escort arrived to help, Konohamaru promised to give a full report on the events. He confronted Mitsuki, surprising the boy when he hugged him and said he was happy to have Mitsuki back. Upon returning to Konohagakure, Konohamaru and Sai debriefed Mitsuki on his actions. Ultimately, accepting Mitsuki's actions not treacherous and beneficial to Iwagakure, it was decided to pardon him, but with the punishment of revoking his shinobi status. Konohamaru requested to take responsibility over their actions to reinstate his team's individual shinobi status. While reluctant to do so, Kurotsuchi's gratitude persuaded Naruto to reinstate Konohamaru's students, much to his joy.

 Jūgo Arc 

In the anime, some time later, Konohamaru led Team 7 and Team 15, Hanabi having had another assignment. They were assigned to investigate the random attacks on village from its nearby wildlife. Tosaka, an ornithologist, was appointed to lend assistance with the birds. Upon arriving, the group was attacked by strange-looking birds. At the village, they learned that many people attacked by the mutated birds quickly became sick and were covered in Cursed Seals. When learning of Jūgo being in the area, Konohamaru speculated that Orochimaru was involved in this. He split the team up to investigate, pairing himself with Mitsuki and warning everyone not to engage him alone.

Konohamaru and Mitsuki arrived just in time to defend Boruto from Jūgo's attack. He was able to keep Jūgo at bay until he absorbed much of Konohamaru's chakra. Konohamaru made use of their close proximity and landed a Rasengan on him, snapping Jūgo out of his blood-lust. Jūgo walked away and the genin gave chase. Tosaka and Team 15 helped Konohamaru follow them, and found Jūgo passed out with an injection device by his hand. Jūgo woke up and protected them from a bird attack, curing it from its cursed seal before leaving. Back at the village, Konohamaru estimated he'd need four or five days of rest. Wasabi voiced her concern about Konohamaru contracting the same cursed seal through his injuries, but Tosaka explained he analysed it and concluded Jūgo's cursed seal and the birds' are different. Konohamaru asked Mitsuki about the device they found, and he confirmed it was from Orochimaru's research, further speculating it was a cursed seal suppression drug. Unable to get back in the field, he tasked Team 15 to go back to Konoha to report and request backup, and Team 7 and Tosaka with monitoring Jūgo and looking out for more of the tranquilliser drug.

Later, Konohamaru was saved by Mitsuki, who removed him in time to avoid an assassination attempt by the Land of Rivers' research team head. After recovering somewhat, Konohamaru decided for him and Mitsuki to go to the enemies' boat near the river to find something to stop the cursed seal infection. They found a serum that removes the cursed seal and made their way to the lake, finding Suigetsu along the way. At the lake, they gave the serum to Suigetsu, who ingested it and merged with the lake, using the water to rain the serum over the birds, curing them. Konohamaru intended to take Tosaka back to Konoha and have him confess his role in the outbreak, only to be informed Karin and Suigetsu had taken him with them when they left.

 Konohamaru's Love Arc 

In the anime, while Konohamaru was talking with Boruto in the village about prioritising their time as ninja, they saw a woman running away from several men. Konohamaru quickly intervened and carried her away from the pursuers. Afterwards, she introduced herself as Remon Yoimura and explained that she was sightseeing the village when she randomly bumped into those men. On Boruto's idea, they decided to show Remon the sights,including the Hokage Rock and why it was so important to Konohamaru. During the tour, Konohamaru and Remon began developing an attraction for each other. Later, it was revealed that Remon was a noblewoman who was dodging her bodyguards and had the responsibility to return. The following day, after Sarada and Chōchō pointed out Konohamaru's growing feelings, Boruto suggested that he and his sensei return Remon's borrowed handkerchief as an excuse to see her again. Upon arriving at her mansion, they were surprised to see Remon preparing for a ceremony. Even more, they were shocked to see how uncharacteristically cold she was to them suddenly, demanding to never see them again.
 
They were approached by Kankitsu Akitsuki, Remon's fiancé. He apologised for Remon's rudeness but firmly asked for the Konoha-nin to leave. On the way back Konohagakura, they found a little girl from Remon's village who despite being close to it, forgot how to get home. The two brought her back to the village and notice how awkward the villagers were acting about the memory loss. Feeling that something was wrong, Konohamaru and Boruto later snuck back into Remon's home to talk with her. She revealed that village was plagued by an evil spirit called Sōma that steals memories. She explained that her ancestor Kuen sealed away the spirit, but not before being cursed by it, which is passed on from generation to generation. The seal grows weaker every hundred years, and a special marriage ritual is required by blood descendants of Kuen to restore the seal. This time, it must be Remon and Kankitsu. Accepting that this was Remon's choice, Konohamaru took Boruto back to the village. Before they could leave, they were met with Remon's caretaker Asaki. She revealed that Kankitsu has quite recently become very cold compared to before and regularly wondering off late at night. She asked them to investigate. Konohamaru accepted and ultimately found nothing unusual.

When waiting for Asaki to show up for report, only to no avail, Konohamaru sent to Boruto to look for her while he continued investigate Kankitsu. When following him to the sacred shrine housing Sōma, Konohamaru was discovered by the security. He was forced to leave the village and a complaint was filed against him, prompting the Hokage to place him under house arrest. Konohamaru began digging through various scrolls for important information. Later, he was approached by Boruto, who revealed that it was Kankitsu who was stealing people's memories. Despite the house arrest, Konohamaru joined Boruto in settling the matters.

Upon returning to the village, they arrived too late, as Kankitsu, who was actually possessed by Sōma, destroyed the seal to free the demon. Konohamaru managed to temporarily trap Sōma while Remon and Kankitsu were saved. After Kankitsu awoke, horrified at what he did, Remon explained that she could use the same seal Kuen used long ago, but would cost Remon her memories just as it did Kuen. As the Konoha-nin lured out Sōma, Remon used her seal. Reluctantly, Konohamaru severed the emerging horns from Remon, completing the seal to permanently defeat Sōma. Later, when Remon awoke, she indeed forgot her entire identity. Konohamaru decided to leave Remon in Kankitsu's care, deciding he would be a hindrance to any chance of her recovering her memories. While Boruto insisted that he should tell Remon how he feels about her, he insisted that some things in life don't need to be said with actual words.

 Time Slip Arc 

In the anime, when Boruto learned that he was the only genin that was put off of the mission to hunt Urashiki due to Urashiki's previous vendetta against Boruto, he was furious. Konohamaru accompanied Boruto to make sure he wouldn't act out too much when talking to the Hokage about this.

Later, the grown-up Sasuke and Boruto were sent back in time to shortly after Sasuke's defection. There, the two pretended to be travelling performers and were put under watch by Naruto. Past-Konohamaru met up with Naruto to compare the improvements to their respective Sexy Techniques. Boruto, amazed at how silly his future sensei was, openly voiced it, annoying Konohamaru. Konohamaru asked Boruto to show his Sexy Technique before Sakura came and punched Naruto for it. Konohamaru insulted her, and before she could react, he ran away.

Days later, Konohamaru and is genin team-mates watched from the bushes as Boruto, Jiraiya, and Naruto fight Urashiki, amazed when Naruto managed to knock out the foe with his Rasengan. When the foe however transformed into monstrously powerful being, Konohamaru and his friends decided to go for help. While the higher-ups didn't listen, they found several of Naruto's friends, who quickly agreed to help. By the time they arrived however, Urashiki was already defeated by Naruto and the others. They helped bring the injured to the hospital.

Days later, after Sasuke and Boruto recovered and prepared to return to their time, Sasuke first used his Sharingan to erase the memories of everyone he and Boruto came in contact of the recent events with to protect the timeline. After Sasuke and Boruto returned to their proper time, they were met with adult-Konohamaru, who they happily reported that Urashiki was defeated.

 Mujina Bandits Arc 

Konohamaru provides his team with instructions through the earphones during their mission to capture Mujina Bandits. Although Boruto eventually ruins the plan of tracking them to their boss, Konohamaru still considers the mission a success after arriving at the scene. Later, Konohamaru asks Metal Lee to call Boruto to the Hokage building, where he introduces Tentō Madoka, son of the Fire Daimyō, to Boruto and entrusts the latter with the mission of protecting him during his visit to Konohagakure. Boruto is dissatisfied with the task and tries to object, but Konohamaru states that the Daimyō personally picked up Boruto for this mission. Also, he privately tells Boruto that he should learn about such things as another side of the ninja career. Three days later after Boruto's bodyguard mission was finished, Konohamaru presented his entire team with their first B-rank mission. While confident they were ready, Konohamaru warned them that their status as ninja would fall if they failed their first high-level mission and as punishment would have to thoroughly clean up his dirty office.Boruto chapter 13

On the day of the mission, Konohamaru was shocked to see that his entire team was a no-show. He later learned that they instead worked together to save the daimyō's son who was kidnapped by the Mujin Bandits. While applaud his students for simultaneously saving Tentō and capturing the Mujin Bandits, he insisted that they would still have to be punished for abandoning their official mission.

 Kara Actuation Arc 

In the anime, as Konohamaru's team was assigned to find Anato, a missing researched in the Land of Valleys, Konohamaru was overjoyed to see that they would be working alongside Mugino. After meeting the man's wife and learning about the village's large medical company, Mitsuki was able to sneak the last known location of Anato's team. There, they were intercepted by Victor, the company's president, and his guards. As he was also looking for Anato's team, and found many of them were dead, it was decided to join efforts. They soon found a cave. Inside, the found Anato, whose body was altered into a malleable state and mindlessly attacked them.

After the team failed to restrain Anato, Victor and his crew then appeared and subdued him with a relentless barrage of Lightning Release. Victor promised they would return Anato to the village for treatment. With their mission technically completed, Konohamaru reluctantly decided the team should to return to the Konohagakure. Along the way, Mitsuki became ill and his body was taking on the same properties as Anato. Mugino brought them to Yubina, a former medical-nin. After she treated Mitsuki, Yubina determined that during the fight with Anato, Mitsuki was infected by some of the First Hokage's cellular structure. Yubina also revealed that other cases like this have shown up, and rumors that the black market was harvesting the late Hokage's cells for sale. It was decided that while Mitsuki would stay behind to recover, the rest would go the source in the Land of Silence.

There, they learned that a worker from Victor's company came by weeks ago with the Hashirama Cell before suddenly disappearing. They also heard rumours that a man was in the area with connections to the Hashirama Cell. It turned out to be missing-nin named Kirisaki with unique medical ninjutsu prowess. After Boruto lured him away, they were able to detain him. They learned that he was expecting to meet someone about the Hashirama Cell the following day. They decided for Konohamaru to impersonate Kirisaki, joined by Boruto posing as an assistant. Once meeting the contact, the man was revealed to be infected by the Hashirama cell as a test to see "Kirisaki's" skill.

After the man collapsed Konohamaru reluctantly injected the antibodies Yubina acquired from Mitsuki to heal the man. Fooled, the man revealed to be a butler of Lady Sakuya. She desired to use the Hashirama Cell on herself under the misguided delusion that it would let her live forever and even more, restore her youth and former beauty. At the castle, Boruto was suddenly detained, where the butler wished to see the process firsthand of how "Kirisaki" would stabilise the Harshirama Cell using Boruto. Konohamaru was able to stall by asking for the while Boruto slipped away to retrieve the target as it was a shadow clone that was detained. Soon after, an alarm was sounded that Sakuya was attacked. Konohama dropped his disguise and found Boruto, who explained that other shinobi killed Sakuya and stole the Hashirama Cell, framing them for the act.

Everyone in the city began hunting them down, in hopes of getting a reward for their capture. As the entire team was cornered, they were aided by a young boy named Katara. He led them through an underground network that the children of the city used for their own society. At the base, the Konoha-nin met up with Mitsuki. After he fully recovered and his antibodies helped cure Kona, she helped Mitsuki sneak into the city. The children's network were able to quickly find the true killers. Once outside the country's borders, Mugino and Konohamaru split up from the genin to find their targets.

Quickly however, they were alerted by an attack on the genin and returned. The attackers were revealed to be Omoi and his team, sent by the Fifth Raikage to retrieve the Hashirama Cell for Konohagakure. After Omoi recognised Konohmaru, the situation was explained and the group worked together to hunt down the true thieves, who were deduced to be shinobi from the Land of Haze. Along the way, they were intercepted by Deepa, who was also looking for the Hashirama Cell. Omoi's team decided to face the new threat while the Konoha-nin moved on. Soon after, Mugino and his team was intercepted by one of the thieves, Yūga, who was determined to complete his mission of delivering the Hashirama Cell to his land at all cost.

He unleashed a self-sacrificing technique to ensnare the Konoha-nin in a barrier and summon a destructive demon. Konohamaru and Mugino attempted to destroy the barrier, but were quickly stopped by the demon. As Mugino was able to restrain the demon, Konohamaru and Boruto destroyed the demon with their respective Rasengan. After Mugino recovered some time later, the team resumed tracking the Haze-nin.

Upon catching up with the remaining foes, the Konoha-nin were tricked and caught by Hiruga's self-sacrificing technique that produced a restraining sludge. As it became clear that the technique would drag all near him underground, Omoi arrived. Battered, he revealed that Deepa killed his allies and was on his way to the Land of Haze to get the Hashirama Cell. Worrying for his remaining brother, Hiruga cancelled his technique and rushed off. While Omoi could not join his allies, he warned them that Deepa was seemingly impervious to all forms of attack.

Upon catching up to Hiruga's older brother, Asaka, it took some convincing that Hiruga was truly him and that there was a new threat. Before a truce could be agreed upon, Deepa arrived and swiftly struck down the remaining quadruplets. Boruto was furious and attacked the man, only for his kunai to harmlessly bounce off Deepa's body. The man explained that he is able to manipulate all the carbon is around him, including in his own body to become invulnerable. Victor arrived, and revealed to be allied with Deepa. Victor split up the jōnin from the genin in the team, where Konohamaru and Mugino faced Victor. Victor proved deceptively capable, manifesting a separate set of powerful arms that proved able to battle back the Konoha-nin. Soon, Victor noticed that Deepa's battle was causing an unusual amount of damage to the area and decided to investigate, sparing Konohamaru and Mugino.

Konohamaru and Mugino found out from Yubina that the genin found their way back to her for after being critically injured. On their way back to Konohagakure, which was better equipped to treat them, they left Mitsuki under Orochimaru's care. As the genin recovered, Konohamaru was angry at himself or not being a better teacher and captain for his students. Naruto did not blame Konohamaru for this event. After he reported their findings on the mission, they decided to get permission from the Land of Valleys to investigate Victor's company. Three days later, approval was granted for Konohamaru and Mugino to stealthily investigate. They were also relieved to hear Boruto and Sarada making the mature decision to leave the mission to them while the genin trained to grow stronger.

Days later, Konohamaru and Mugino arrived at Victor's company. They exchanged pleasantries with Victor, but tensions rose when the conversation turned to the Hashirama Cell. Victor pointed out that they couldn't force the issue without escalating things into a diplomatic incident, and had them escorted out. Later, Konohamaru and Mugino infiltrated the company to continue their investigation. As they sneaked in deeper, they soon saw that several new patients were brought to a restricted area, never to come out. To Konohamaru's surprise, he saw a doctor from Iwagakure that supposedly died during the Fabrication Uprising. While trying to sneak in further, the Konoha-nin were cut off by a security system that blocked their entrance into the secret lab.

As they continued looking for an opening, they witnessed Deepa's arrival, whose recent mission was a failure. Victor noted that he would soon have to attend to an inspection of his company with the Land of Valleys' damiyō, and that his experiment was nearing the final stage. Mugino and Konohamaru were concerned by this. They decided to take advantage of the inspection for their next move.

Before the daimyō and his retinue arrived at Victor's company, Konohamaru and Mugino knocked out two of his guards and transformed into them. Upon arriving at the company they were brought into the central laboratory, where they underwent sterilisation. Victor presented the daimyō with several people safely in stasis as they were be treated of various incurable illnesses. Having already seen through the truth, Konohamaru and Mugino released the daimyō from the genjutsu Victor had administered through the "sterilising". The people in stasis were in fact being used as nourishment for Victor's true project. Konohamaru and Mugino revealed themselves and explained the situation. While the daimyō was ashamed of his blindness to Victor's deceit, he agreed to let the Konoha-nin act as needed. Victor however activated his experiment, revealing a miniature God Tree that began consuming all targets. Konohamaru and Mugino worked to protect themselves and the daimyō.

As the tree continued to grow and rampage, the daimyō was briefly ensnared with most of his chakra drained. Konohamaru held off the tree long enough for Mugino to get the daimyō away as he was the only credible witness to Victor's crimes. Konohamaru was determined to stop the threat of the God Tree and stayed behind. There, he was by chance met up with Boruto and Sarada, having completed their own mission recently. While not liking the idea of endangering his students, he conceded to needing help. They were then approached by Victor, who revealed to have cultivated this God Tree from fragments of the original God Tree during the Fourth Great War, using the Hashirama Cell for this. As Victor revealed in the production of Chakra Fruit, he ruptured the ground around Boruto and Sarada, sending them below to split them from Konohamaru.

As Konohamaru continued battling the elder, he was amazed by Victor's mastery of all five nature transformations. At the same time, he was furious to hear of Victor's complete disregard for human life, willing to sacrifice countless people to gain power. Konohamaru was soon overwhelmed, only to be saved by the sudden arrival of Orochimaru. The Sannin insisted he cared little about Konohamaru and simply wanted to make Victor pay for stealing the Hashirama Cell from his laboratory. As Orochimaru continued to make sport of Victor, the Inner sought the God Tree's fruit for more power, only to be ensnared by the tree like the other victims. Orochimaru noted that Victor's God Tree was a crude imitation, unable to produce such fruit. Ultimately, the God Tree was destroyed and with the enemies defeated, Orochimaru decided to leave it at that. As Orochimaru noted he informed Naruto about the events, Konohamaru noted to Orochimaru he was happy to see Mitsuki was okay. Orochimaru trusted Konohamaru to take care of Mitsuki from there.

Upon returning to the village, Konohamaru and Mugino reported to Naruto. They revealed what they learned about Victor and his involvement with Kara. He and Konohamaru also noted the existence of "Outers" who apparently worked as spies for Kara. In light of this news and what was discovered after investigating Victor's company, the question of whether or not to close the gates to the village came up.

 Ao Arc 

In the anime, Konohamaru attended the memorial service for the fallen people of the Fourth Shinobi World War.

Later, upon a blimp slipping through the Land of Fire's air defence network undetected and crashing, Konohamaru and Mugino are sent on mission to investigate it. Upon arriving at the blimp on the Land of Fire's border, he discovers that inside contains a container that was recently opened. While unsure what was inside, he has a dreadful feeling about it. While inspecting the container, he found a data unit. After downloading its information, he found Mugino badly injured, looking up to find the assailant, which turned out to be a group of advanced self-moving puppets. Konohamaru managed to escape with Mugino, as the puppets seemed programmed to only protect the blimp. Later, while tending to Mugino's injuries while in a cave, Konohamaru was found by his students and Katasuke Tōno. While discussing what happened, they were confronted by Ao, who held them at gun-point to question them about what they learned inside the blimp.

Ao then unleashed a barrage of Fire Release Bullets from his gun, making everyone realising that he a scientific ninja tool. Konohamaru, with help from Katsuke, was able to destroy Ao's gun. As Konohamaru asked if this had anything to do with the organisation Kara, Ao unleashed a hidden weapon from his prosthetic shoulder, blasting Konohamaru. He then attacked Katsuke and stole one of his technique-absorbing gauntlets. After testing it himself on Boruto's Rasengan, Ao concluded that now they had to die to keep the organisation a secret. Mugino then held Ao down long enough to collapse the cave on him and Ao to save his allies. His sacrifice however turned futile as Ao quickly clawed his way out of the rubble, prompting Konohamaru and his team to retreat. As they took shelter, Katsuke admitted to his shame that the enemies' access to advanced ninja tech was because they brainwashed him into giving up his research. As Konohamaru insisted that they had to return the data he found on the blimp to Konohagakure. Boruto however insisted that they had to stop before he continued to abuse the technology that Katasuke gave him.

The team then devised a plan to take advantage of Ao's high usage of ninja tech. To begin their counterattack, Mitsuki, Sarada, and Konohamaru pressured Ao with a barrage of ninjutsu attacks, all of which were quickly absorbed by the gauntlet. Boruto then attacked from Ao's blindside during the assault with his chakra-blade, but the seasoned enemy saw through the attack, quickly blocking with his prosthetic arm, forcing Boruto to drop his weapon. Ao then grabbed the tech weapon and stabbed Boruto in the chest. Boruto however, revealed to be a shadow clone, began the next part of the team's plan, grabbing onto Ao, letting Mitsuki restrict Ao's hand on the activated prototype weapon, which quickly drained Ao of his stamina. Ao managed to break free and faced off against Boruto's Rasengan. He attempted to absorb it, but Boruto revealed to be wearing the other absorbing gauntlet, using it to cancel the two gauntlets' absorbing power long enough to hit Ao with the Rasengan. As the team surrounded the seemingly defeated foe, Konohamaru noticed a sneak attack from a bunch of Mirror Drones. He blocked the attack on Boruto with is own body, knocking him out. Boruto however was able to outsmart Ao and defeat him. Once Konohamaru came to, he was impressed by his student's growth.

The moment was ruined when Koji Kashin appeared and killed Ao with his Boiler Toad. After introducing himself, Konohamaru questioned him about Kara. Refusing to answer, Koji erected pillars around the team to paralyse them. Prepared for such a situation, Konohamaru used the seal on his chest to free himself from the fūinjutsu. Facing Koji alone, Konohamaru attacked him with taijutsu, swiftly followed by attacking him with his Rasengan, leading to Koji creating his own Rasengan to counter Konohamaru's. Questioning who in the world his opponent is, Konohamaru noticed a toad on his hip, which explodes in flames that engulfs him. Yelling out, Boruto subconsciously activated his Kāma, which absorbed all the flames. Having collapsed, Konohamaru questioned what the mark on Boruto was, followed by Koji choosing to retreat.

 Kawaki Arc 

Departing the scene with Katasuke, they encountered destroyed puppets a fair distance away from the crashed blimp, followed by finding an unconscious boy. As they began to examine the boy, Kawaki, for injuries, they discovered that he had a matching seal to Boruto's on his left palm. As Boruto's seal began to hurt Kawaki, also felt the pain, making him abruptly wake up and destroy the area within his vicinity. Questioning who the team were, Konohamaru identified himself, and asked for information regarding the crash. Refusing to provide information and wanting to be left alone, Boruto revealed to the boy his mark, resulting in Kawaki believing they were pursuers from Kara. As they tried to correct him, Garō made his presence known, announcing his intentions of recovering Kawaki. Kawaki resisted, showing the ability to manipulate his body structure into weapons.

As he watched the fight between Kawaki and Garō, Konohamaru stressed to his team that the new developments would increase their mission to S-rank, urging them to act cautiously. When Kawaki killed Garō with a blast, Konohomaru was protected from it by Boruto, who activated his Kāma, using it to absorb part of the explosion. This convinced Kawaki even more that they were with Kara. After Kawaki fainted from overheating, and Katasuke determined his body to have been modified into a scientific ninja tool, they decided to take him to meet with the Seventh Hokage. After returning to the village, Konohamaru gave his report of the mission and watched over Kawaki until he awoke, leaving Naruto to take over. 

In the anime, Konohamaru decided to attend to cleaning up Mugino's home, surprised to see how little he kept there. He was also surprised to see Boruto there, who promised Mugino to care for his pet turtle in the man's absence. After as two reminisced about Mugino and how he affected them, it was agreed to let Konohamaru keep Mugino's only two real possessions, his turtle and a framed photo of the Third Hokage with a hand-written acceptance letter from the late Hokage to Mugino. 

Later, Jigen, the leader of Kara infiltrated the village to retrieve Kawaki. Konohamaru joined the Hokage to engage the threat, but was quickly disabled by Jigen's rods. Ultimately, Jigen's attempt to retrieve Kawaki failed, but left Naruto captured by Kara and Sasuke critically injured. After Konohamaru recovered his own injuries, he was put on guard duty of Kawaki. Later, Konohamaru and Sai were assigned a mission to investigate Boro's cult in an attempt to learn Kara's Ten-Tails' new whereabouts. Claiming to wanting to join the cult, the two learned that some cultists would sometimes disappear. Tricking one of the cultists into trying to contact Boro, they uncovered evidence the missing cultists had died in Kara's Vessel experiments. Despite exposing Boro's role in the plagues that caused many of the cultists to join and in the death of the missing cultists, many remained loyal to him. Delta arrived to destroy the facility, which shocked him and Sai, who knew she had been destroyed by Naruto. They reported back to him in Konoha.

Konohamaru participated in the coordination efforts lead by Shikamaru when Isshiki's arrival was imminent. He visited Mugino's grave before Isshiki's arrival, and was among the first to engage him in combat. He was quickly defeated, and narrowly saved by Naruto's arrival, who ordered him to continue helping with the civilian evacuation.

 Chūnin Re-Examination Arc 

In the anime, following Isshiki's defeat, Naruto had a Chūnin Exams set up for Konoha to help boost moral from the recent attack. Konohamaru aided Shikamaru in reorganising the event, and acted as a proctor during the finals, drawing names for the matches and acting as their referee. When Sarada expressed concern over Boruto and Mitsuki's absence, he clarified that they wouldn't be disqualified unless they were still absent by the time their names were drawn. Despite this, Konohamaru eventually drew Boruto and Mitsuki's names to face each other. Unable to give exceptions, Konohamaru disqualified them as they were both still absent for their match. After the exams were finished, he congratulated the winners at the closing ceremony, and then chased after Boruto and Mitsuki for arriving late.

Days later, Konohamaru and Mirai were assigned a mission to escort a newlywed couple to a new village. However, the village had been secretly taken over and held hostage by Hyōgo. The two allowed themselves to be captured to investigate. After Mirai managed to escape and notify the village, Konohamaru was tortured for information, but revealed nothing, and stalled for time, waiting for a fog to roll in. Hyōgo decided to torture the newlyweds instead to make him talk, but his students arrived, and understanding the likely reason why Konohamaru stayed behind, freed the hostages. They defeated Hyōgo in a final mission as teacher and students. They returned to the village in time for the official chūnin appointment ceremony, and took one last team photo, as Sarada's promotion made it unnecessary for him to remain as a jōnin captain.

Later, Konohamaru informed Naruto and Shikamaru of a recently discovered corpse. They wondered about a connection with five other similar incidents in other countries. He later updated them that all the victims were from the Land of Calm Seas, leading Naruto to dispatch Team 7 as reinforcements for Team 10, who were escorting a client from the same country, as they were on a mission in a nearby area.

 Great Sea Battle of Kirigakure Arc 

In the anime, Konohamaru subbed for Naruto during filming a guest appearance for the next movie of the Kagemasa franchise, which would feature the Rasengan in the climax. Konohamaru was underwhelmed by the excessive use of CG in the production, and was able to convince most of the crew to shoot on location with the help of the assistant director. However, the produced fired most of the crew over it. The assistant director wanted to continue filming with his own money, but was held hostage by criminals at the bank. Konohamaru helped save him with Gongorō Kamakura's help, Kagemasa's actor, and ended up using a Rasengan to deal with an explosive tag. The rest of the crew recorded everything, and the footage greatly pleased the movie sponsors, which prompted the produced to hire everyone back. The movie ended up being a success.

 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

In the anime, Udon attended the entrance ceremony for a new class of students in the Academy.

 Code's Assault Arc 

Following Isshiki's defeat, Team 7 was put on suspension to better watch Boruto for any episode from his Kāma. At the same time, Kawaki joined Team 7 in their training. Konohamaru was amazed at the boy's continued lack of team-work. When Kawaki found basic shinobi drills pointless, he pushed for more extreme combat training. Konohamaru opted to step in, but Naruto convinced him to let things play out. Boruto and Kawaki made bet with each other on who would dictate their training style, with Boruto ultimately winning in a sparring match. Konohamaru was impressed to see how mature Boruto sounded when he reasoned with Kawaki to accept help from his friends.

 Omnipotence Arc 

Later, Konohamaru was present alongside Sumire when Shikamaru explained Team 7's first mission in a while, updating them on what happened with Amado, Code, and Ada, and how they'd have her under surveillance while living with her. Konohamaru explained that while Boruto and Kawaki would live with Ada, as they're immune to her ability, Boruto would act as a mediator between her and Kawaki, while Konohamaru, Mitsuki, and Sarada, would watch from afar, including if Boruto is still acting as himself instead of as Momoshiki.

Later, as a luxurious house was being prepared for Ada's arrival, Konohamaru revealed it was previously owned but the higher-ups were able to convince them to relinquish it. Soon after, Ada arrived. Upon seeing her, Konohamaru instantly fell to her allure power. As she turned her full attention to him, the lovestruck Konohamaru fainted. The next day, her argued against Mitsuki joining Sarada and Sumire when Ada asked to talk to them, referencing his previous susceptibility to Ada's entrancing, and again when Ada and the girls went out shopping.

When Kawaki sealed away Naruto and Hinata away so they wouldn't interfere with killing Boruto, Boruto and Kawaki fought at the Hokage Rock. Konohamaru helped Boruto up after his eye was slashed protecting Sarada, but Momoshiki suddenly manifested himself, absorbing Shikamaru's jutsu to allow Kawaki to escape.

As Konohamaru joined the other Konoha-nin in searching for Kawaki, he noticed a flash appear in the sky.

 New Era: Part II 
Sometime following Naruto's reported death and Shikamaru becoming the provisional Eighth Hokage, Konohamaru was appointed his chief aide.

 Boruto's Return Arc 

Three years later after Boruto left Konoha, Konohamaru listened with Shikamaru to yet another appeal of Sarada's to listen to Boruto's side of the story, interjecting that they had Ada's Senrigan testimony of the event. When Code's Claw Grime infiltrated the village and attacked, Shikamaru charged Konohamaru with overseeing evacuation efforts. In the aftermath, Konohamaru learned that a Claw Grime had consumed Moegi and transformed into a small tree to contain and steal her chakra.

Later, when Jura and Hidari attacked the village in search of Naruto, Konohamaru led a group of Konoha-nin to intercept the threat. When Sarada and Sumire arrived, Hidari turned his full attention on Sarada, attacking her using Sasuke's Chidori, only for the girl to counter it. As Konohamaru demanded to know who the stranger was, he quickly incapacitated his foes with nature transformations. Konohamaru tried to subdue the foe with his Rasengan, but was quickly overpowered.

As Hidari prepared to consume Sarada with his Wood Release, Boruto appeared to free her and repelled Hidari. He requested Konohamaru to protect the unconscious Himawari with him. As Konohamaru was hesitant work alongside an "enemy", Boruto explained the nature of Hidari, revealing how he was a product of Sasuke being devoured by a Claw Grime. Hearing how this related to Moegi, Konohamaru decided to help Boruto. The God Tree summoned several Claw Grimes. As Boruto prepared his Rasengan: "Uzuhiko", Kawaki protected Boruto from Hidari's sneak attacks through the Clawk Marks. Upon hitting Hidari with his new Rasengan, Kawaki appeared to finish off Hidari, obliterating him. Boruto then discovered Hidari's Thorn Soul Bulb, which he explained can save the devoured Sasuke. Suddenly, Jura sniped Boruto down with a blast and retrieved the bulb and retreated.

As Himawari awoke, as the new Nine-Tails Jinchūriki, she used her powers to heal Sarada. As she intended to do the same for Boruto, but Konohamaru and the other Konoha-nin first chose to restrain him as a wanted criminal first. As he placed a special pair of chakra-suppressing cuffs on Boruto, he told his men to alert the Eighth Hokage.

Later, Konohamaru and Ibiki Morino awaited Boruto to awake in the interrogation room. Once he did, the missing-nin was demanded some answers. Boruto explained what the man-like God Trees are but refused to reveal his source. He also revealed that the Seventh Hokage and Hinata are both alive, but gave no other information, annoying the elders. Shikamaru then called in Mitsuki to help with the interrogation through his venom. As Mitsuki suddenly became enraged and tackled Boruto, the cuffs came off and he teleported away. Konohamaru was shocked how Boruto managed to escape those special cuffs. Secretly, Mitsuki he used this moment to free Boruto from his cuff, having been ordered to do so by Shikamaru.

 Matsuri and Ryū Arc 

Later, when Shikamaru learned from an secret source that two God Trees were going to go to the Land of Wind, Team 7 was deployed to work with Araya and Yodo to deal with them. Shikamaru told Konohamaru how the Human God Trees are not necessarily evil, but rather unsure of their identities and acting purely on instinct. To which, he instructed Konohamaru to take advantage of Matsuri romantic feelings developing for Konohamaru and befriend her until the moment was right to strike her down and obtain her Thorn Soul Bulb to free Moegi. Konohamaru reluctantly agreed and accepted the mission. 

Days later, after meeting with the Suna-nin, they found Ryū and Matsuri. Following Shikamaru's plan, Konohamaru and his team approached the God Trees, feigning ignorance as to who and what they were, telling the two that they're hunting down Boruto. As Matsuri grew flustered in the presence of Konohamaru, it was agreed to join with the God Trees to find Boruto. Soon, Konohamaru convinced the God Trees to separate under the pretense of better searching the area, Konohamaru pairing up with Matsuri while talking nicely to here.

Eventually, the frazzled God Tree asks if she can refer to him as "Konohamaru-chan". Disturbed by this, Konohamaru asks that she not do so, as only one other person calls him that. Realising that Konohamaru was referring to Moegi, Matsuri quickly became irritable, demanding to know what his relationship is to Moegi. As Matsuri continues to grow angrier at Konohamaru's refusal of her requests, she decides that she doesn't want to deal with these emotions anymore, enveloping Konohamaru with her Wood Release to consume him.

As Matsuri's Wood Release began engulfing Konohamaru, begged Matsuri to not be so reckless. She insisted that needed to do this, he noticed she began crying. He pointed this out to her, insisting this meant she didn't want to do this. As she again became conflicted, Konohamaru asked her to let him hold her hand. She agreed, finding his warm touch soothing. This opening let Konohamaru counterattack with his Big Ball Spiralling Serial Spheres, obliterating Matsuri's hands and lower half to free him. Despite this, the Human God Tree relied on her Wood Release as makeshift limbs to continue her assault. As she pierced and pinned Konohomaru down, they were both surprised by the sudden appearance of Boruto, who swiftly sliced Matsuri into pieces and save the jōnin.

Konohamaru was amazed at how easily Boruto defeated Matsuri, although he admitted the Human God Tree was already severely weakened. As Matsuri Thornsoul Bulb manifested, Boruto reminded him that it would free Moegi. Suddenly, a sniper blast landed near Boruto. The missing-nin quickly realised that it was Jura. He told Konohamaru to escape the Bulb and his allies. Konohamaru secured the Bulb as Boruto ran off, knowing that Jura would pursue him.

As Konohamaru returned to find his team with Matsuri's Thornsoul Bulb, he discovered that Ryū was destroyed and his Thornsoul bulb also secured. However, Sarada was unconscious and Yodo was killed. Araya, having completed his mission, left with Ryū's bulb and Yodo to Sunagakure to free Shinki. As Mitsuki suggested they go help Boruto, Konohamaru declined, insisting that they still had their mission to return Matsuri's Thornsoul Bulb to Moegi. Konohamaru also trusted that Boruto had a plan. Upon returning to the rendezvous point, they were met with Delta. 

Soon enough, Boruto teleported with Kawaki to the group, landing on Konohamaru's head since he stood over Boruto's special pin marker for his Flying Thunder God Technique. With everyone met up and them having obtained Matsuri's Thornsoul Bulb, the group decided to return to Konoha.

Upon which, Konohamaru was joined by Moegi's students as he inserted the bulb into Moegi's tree prison. It instantly shattered to safely free her. As Konohamaru caught her, he tearfully hugged her in relief. They then brought Moegi to the hospital, where she was noted will make a full recovery.

 Mamushi Arc 

Upon the Fire Daimyō questioning the interim Hokage's ability to carry out the responsibilities of being the head of his village, a meeting was held. Konohamaru attended with the of Konoha Council of Elders and the Fire Daimyō's chief advisor, Kobu as the Acting-Eighth Hokage was summoned. During their meeting, the possibility of a mole being in the inner circle of the village was brought up. As Konohamaru voiced his belief that Boruto was not an enemy after he saved the Jōnin from the Human God Trees, Koharu scoffed at the suggestion after what "Boruto" did to the Seventh Hokage, Konohamaru was promptly escorted from the meeting as Shikamaru was then questioned in order to identify who helped Boruto escape custody in the village.

Later, when Kubo began interrogating him, Konohamaru admitted that his attitude towards Boruto had changed following the recent mission where the missing-nin helped him. He was then contacted by Shikamaru via Inojin's Mind Body Transmission, warning Konohamaru to not draw attention to himself. He admitted to Konohamaru that he was the one who freed Boruto. As Konohamaru was shocked to hear the Acting Eighth Hokage aid the traitor, he came to understand why Shikamaru did this, now also having conflicting feelings towards Boruto. Shikamaru warned Konohamaru that the truth of his aiding a criminal would eventually be figured out, asking Konohamaru to help not only him, but Boruto and his allies.

Following his interrogation, Konohamaru noticed Sai watching him carefully, worried the man knew about Konohamaru's secret communication. Soon after, Shikamaru contacted Konohamaru again, along with a secret team of people who acknowledged Boruto as an ally through Inojin's Mind Body Transmission Formation. He explained Mamushi had arrived in the village, looking for Ada. Shikamaru then explained the Human God Tree's Division ability and began coordinating the team against the threat. 

As Kobu began questioning Mitsuki, noting that Boruto's cuffs were no faulty, and thus Mitsuki must have deliberately released Boruto. As the daimyō advisor asked Mitsuki which of the only three people who knew the code gave it to him, Konohamaru returned, proclaiming that Boruto's escape was his fault, having forgotten to lock code in the first place. Via Inojin's mind-link, Mitsuki asked why Konohamaru is lying. He revealed to Mitsuki he knew that Mitsuki did this on orders by Shikamaru, noting they need to keep Shikamaru's status as Hokage going. However, Kobu however easily saw through the lie, realizing that Konohamaru was trying to protect someone. From this, he demanded that the acting Eighth Hokage be interrogated next.

It was then revealed by Sai that the village was under attack by Human God Trees. Despite this threat, Kobu remained determine to interrogate Shikamaru next. Ultimately, when the threat of Mamushi endangered Kobu as well, he reluctantly conceded to postpone the interrogation so Shikamaru could aid the village. 

Ultimately, as the Mamushis reached the hundreds, it was decided to lure them to Ada to gather them in for one combined assault. As Ada made herself visible and drew them together, Kawaki joined Daemon and the Konoha team to begin their counterattack. While soon getting the hundreds of Mamushis down to under 50, their plan to wipe them remainder out in one assault failed when Sarada fainted from overusing her Mangekyō Sharingan. As Konohamaru rushed to check on Sarada, Mamushi, now filled with survival instinct, multiplied into the thousands.

As the Mamushis continued their relentless pursuit of Ada, Injoin was summoned to the field. With it deduced that the Divisions shared a hive mind, Inojin transferred his mind into a Mamushi, subsequently taking control of all the Mamushis. He directed killing intent on Daemon so he would reflect it back on the Mamushis and destroy their eyes, the only means for Mamushi to continue dividing. Following this, all the Mamushis collapsed and disintegrated. 

Following this, Konohamaru took Sarada to the hospital for treatment from her Mangekyō over-usage.

 In Other Media 
 OVAs 
 Chūnin Exam on Fire! Naruto vs. Konohamaru 

Konohamaru and his team compete in the Chūnin Exams located in Sunagakure, where he eventually reaches the tournament round of the exams. There, he is matched up against Naruto. As Konohamaru surprises Naruto with his improved skill, Naruto decides to use his senjutsu. This however causes Naruto to be disqualified, who was unaware of the rule against it. By the end of the exams, Konohamaru earns chūnin status, puts on his new flak jacket, and gloats that Naruto is now his subordinate.

 Video Games 

 Creation and Conception 
Konohamaru's design caused great difficulties for Masashi Kishimoto; he intended for Konohamaru to look like a "punk" smaller than Naruto, yet all of his attempts resulted in a mere recreation of Naruto. He eventually gave Konohamaru small, angry-looking eyes, and was instantly happy with the design.

 Trivia 
 According to the databook(s):
 Konohamaru's favourite foods are ramen and chocolate-covered bananas. His least favourite are onions.
 He wishes to fight his grandfather and Naruto Uzumaki.
 His favourite phrase is: .
 According to his Naruto Mobile profile, Konohamaru was considered a genius child that Konoha was proud of since he was a child.Naruto Mobile Konohamaru (Part II) Profile
 According to character trivia from Boruto: Naruto Next Generations:
 His attributes are: 160 in strength, 120 in negotiation, 140 in chakra, 100 in intelligence, 140 in perception, and 150 in dexterity.
 He was also given a skill rating in these particular areas:
 Unarmed Hand-to-hand Fighting: ★★★☆☆
 Ninjutsu: ★★★★☆
 Evasion: ★★★★☆

 Quotes 
 (To Naruto) Naruto chapter 2, page 10
 (To Ebisu) Naruto chapter 427, pages 2-3
 (To Pain) Naruto chapter 428, page 7