Title: Kujaku
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Kujaku
-----------------------

was a kunoichi from the Takumi Village and the only female member of the Four Celestial Symbols Men.

Personality
Kujaku was very arrogant and would regularly mock her enemies.

Appearance
Kujaku was a fairly slender kunoichi who had fair skin, blue-green cyan hair that had two light yellow striped bangs in the front of her hair, and thin blue-green cyan eyebrows. Light brown pupil-less eye irises, had light red lipstick on her lips, worn a light grey jacket that had a long white furry tuft around her neck, under this was a dark red sleeveless dress that exposes most of her top cleavage, had two dark brown belts wrapped around it one at the top of her waist and the other at the bottom, under that was a light brown sleeveless shirt that had covered her dark red sleeveless dress, a long light grey sleeveless leather glove on her right arm, a long light brown stocking that covered her left arm, which had a single pitch black leather glove covering her right hand, a white hidden artisans forehead protector that was wrapped up all around her forehead, wore light grey calf length high heel stocking sandals and had carried the two Weaknessless Soaring Shortswords in the left side of her jacket. 

 Abilities 

Kujaku used two special swords called the Weaknessless Soaring Shortswords. With them, she could freely control and transform the wind, resulting in the use of powerful Wind Release techniques with the minimal cost of chakra. She was able to neutralise and revert all the attacks of Temari with an amazing facility. She can also create whirlwinds around herself to travel in midair. Kujaku most likely would have killed Temari, if Shikamaru didn't save her.

 Part I 
 Sunagakure Support Mission 

She and her group were responsible for the abduction of Gaara's student, Matsuri. While Gaara's team was giving chase, Kujaku ambushed them, and started battle with Temari. Kujaku had the advantage and would have killed Temari, if it weren't for Shikamaru and Ino. Kujaku, still with the lead, wasn't giving Shikamaru any time for strategies. Temari fired a cyclone of wind at Kujaku but missed on purpose. Kujaku mockingly laughed, but before she could make her next move, she was bound in place with Shikamaru's Shadow Imitation Technique, Temari's earlier attack having been done to increase his range. Temari then launched her Summoning: Quick Beheading Dance against Kujaku, tossing her up in the air. Kujaku then fell into a nearby river.

 Trivia 
 Her name, meaning "peafowl" comes from Suzaku, the Vermilion Bird of the South.