Title: Kura Kageno
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Kura_Kageno
-----------------------

is an Academy student of Konohagakure.

 Personality 

Kura is a modest girl, who in most cases stands aside, or, being in the company, silently watches what is happening. However, she is no stranger to the interest, and listens to gossip about her classmates with pleasure. She also enjoys horror movies, readily volunteering to join in investigating the spooky Seven Mysteries of the Academy, but still, even after passing part of the tests, she eventually chickened out and ran away. Proud of her clan's fighting style, she remains rather clumsy in executing her abilities.

 Appearance  
Kura is a short girl who wears a black, cat-eared hood, hiding her eyes, with a bell around her neck, and a tail sticking out from the back. She also wears shorts, black stockings, and a pair of plain sandals. Kura's teeth stick out from under the upper lip, giving her a slightly fanged look.

 Abilities 
Stemming from her family's background as concealed weapons users, Kura keeps many hidden objects on her person, to the point Ehō wondered where she stored them all. However, she struggles with immediately finding what she's looking for.

 New Era 
 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

Kura attended the Academy opening ceremony as part of a new class. Her classroom was put under the care of new teacher Hana Kaka. Her class included many children of famous people, including the daughter of an acting duo, the daughter of the Seventh Hokage, and Kae Yukiwari, the princess of the Land of Bamboo. The class also included Kawaki, a noticeably older student.

Later, she attended a tea party at Kae's home. After Kae angrily scolded Osuka Kamakura for forcing her friend to ruin the tea party, Kura and the other classmates openly applauded Kae, finding her true outspoken side more enjoyable than the prim and proper demeanour she had been hiding behind.

When Team 7 came to class and demonstrated their ninjutsu skills, Kura joined Mitsuki's group, where she admired his Lightning Release: Snake Lightning. Like the other students, she wanted to take a closer look at the technique, causing her teacher, Hana Kaka, to push her out of the away. Later, she entered a competition hosted by Boruto Uzumaki, trying to take the red ball from Harika Aburame. When Ehō Norimaki and Soul Tao started a conflict, Kura sided with Soul. Like the rest of her, she attended a picnic held by Hana under the cherry blossoms when the dispute was resolved.

Days later, Kura was part of a group who wanted to investigate some Academy urban legends at night. She fled in fear after Kawaki faked Iruka's portrait coming to life with a monstrous appearance, before investigating all the mysteries. The next day, she recounted her experience to other students. During a practical lesson, Kura was placed in a team led by Osuka alongside Ehō.

When her class had to put on a play about the Sannin, Kura handled the special effects, using smoke bombs to simulate the Summoning Technique. When Eiki's struggle with Kawaki damaged the set, Kura joined in the repair efforts.

The day of the festival, Kura and Mimi were in charge of a target booth with prizes for hitting targets with kunai. When shinobi quickly began winning all their prizes, they wondered if they should have barred shinobi from participating. When the festival received a terrorist threat, Kura stayed inside.

Later, following Hana being hospitalised from the terrorist attack, Kura joined her class in welcoming back their teacher. To make up for the festival being cancelled, Hana arranged for the class to undergo survival training on an uninhabited island. However, Kikuchiyo was injured and Kura discovered that their food supplies vanished, stoking fear about a rumour of killer missing-nin settling on the island. Everyone formed groups to scavenge food, and later to look for Neon's damaged drone. By night, everyone enjoyed their food.

Attracted by an explosion, the class encountered Kawaki and Himawari, who revealed that Hana, actually an assassin, had killed Kae. Himawari pointed out that her actions made more sense if Hana wanted to keep Kae as a hostage. Working together, the students tracked Kae and Hana to a cave, Kura producing a rope that allowed them to cross the destroyed bridge, and having brought an old edition of the Academy paper mentioned by Sōsha that allowed them to focus their search. Finding the situation too dangerous for the students, Kawaki revealed himself as a shinobi, and credited them for helping find Kae. Eiki still believed there was something they could do, leading them to the docks, hoping to get word of the situation out. They came across Sai, who came to the island with Team 25 after discovering Hana's Land of Bamboo background. Upon finding Hana defeated, her teacher personality struggled against the assassin one, eventually prevailing with the encouragement of her students and regaining control. As Kae had to return home, the class finally put on the Sannin play, and later saw her off at the train station.

 Trivia 
 Depending on how it is written, "Kura" can have different meanings:
 Written as 蔵 or 倉, it means "warehouse", alluding to her ability to hide objects.
 Written as 暗, it means "dark", which is related to "Kage" (影) in her family name, meaning "shadow".

pt-br:Kura Kageno