Title: Kurobane
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Kurobane
-----------------------

is an Anbu from the Land of Calm Seas.

 Background 
Kurobane and his brother became elite assassins for the Land of Calm Seas' daimyō. They would regularly be sent to silence people who defied the daimyō, torturing them to confess to crimes they didn't commit so they could be publicly executed.

 Personality 
Kurobane is shown to be a very cold-hearted and sadistic man, relishing in the chance to make his targets suffer and scream. He has no loyalty for fellow countrymen, killing students under his employer's commands and not caring if they die of an avoidable epidemic.

 Appearance 
Kurobane is a tall man of fair complexion with a long face and narrow eyes. He has long, purple hair tied into a ponytail that hangs at his back in a loop. He wears white cloth around his forehead. He dresses in green robes with black pants.

 Abilities 

Kurobane is a highly efficient assassin. He seems to excel in tracking and interrogation skills. He also is proficient in Water Release, able to cover the area with the Hiding in Mist Technique. He is able to use ambient moisture to create an illusory mist, which also drains his enemies of their own body moisture, eventually drying them into husks. Using his own blood as a medium, he can control weapons from a distance.

 New Era 
 Chūnin Re-Examination Arc 

As the Land of Calm Seas was ravaged by an epidemic, a medical-nin found cheap and quick-acting treatment to help the population. The greedy daimyō sent out Kurobane and his brother to destroy the treatment so he could continue using his slower method of treating people to make more money. One after another, the brothers were able to track down the medical-nin's students, securing their medical samples and killing them. The final target was Mozuku, who hired Konoha-nin as bodyguards. Kurobane was able to secure the medical samples and left while leaving Jujumaru to deal with the targets. Kawaki and Mozuku caught up with him, so he used his illusory mist to deal confuse and drain them while he attacked from a safe distance. Kawaki was able to read through his tactic and hit him dispelling the mist. However, Kurobane was still able to manipulate his sword, and used it to attack Kawaki, though Mozuku protected him, getting fatally injured. Boruto and Shikadai arrived, destroying his sword and preventing him from escaping, allowing Kawaki to thoroughly pummel him.

 Trivia 
 Kurobane's name may originate from the town within Tochigi Prefecture, which was an Edo-period castle town for the domain of the same name.

pt-br:Kurobane