Title: Kusabi
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Kusabi
-----------------------

is one of the many mercenaries hired by Gatō.

 Personality 
Kusabi seemed to be very violent and belligerent by nature as seen from his shouting of death threats to Team Kakashi and declaring that he was going to pillage the Land of Waves.Naruto chapter 33, page 7 He is also very cowardly when a challenge is given.

 Appearance 
Kusabi had brown hair which was tied in four and had decals hanging from it. He had a red cloth wrapped around his pure white eyes with holes in it for seeing. He carried a long, pole-like weapon which had a ring in the top.Naruto episode 19

 Abilities 
Kusabi carried a pole-like weapon, indicating him having some skill in this weapon's use.

 Part I 
 Prologue — Land of Waves 

Kusabi was one of the many mercenaries Gatō brought along to kill Zabuza Momochi, Team 7 and Tazuna once they are all weakened from battle, in order for Gatō to not pay Zabuza's exorbitant fees. When Gatō was killed, Kusabi contemplated looting the Land of Waves as compensation for losing his "meal ticket", but when the villagers, along with Naruto and Kakashi's use of the Shadow Clone Technique swelling his opposition's numbers, he and the other mercenaries fled.

In the anime, he became part of a group led by Zori and Waraji that kidnapped Inari and his friends. Kusabi drank alcohol when his comrade dreamed of money and power, and then pursued the escaped children. After the group faced Naruto and Sasuke, who defeated Waraji, Kusabi, along with Zori and several other people, tried to escape, but they were stopped by the villagers led by Tazuna. The criminals were fired at from crossbows and they surrendered, falling to their knees, and then they were tied up and handed over to the servants of the law.

 Trivia 
 "Kusabi" (轄 or 楔) translates into "wedge" or "chock". 
 A shinobi resembling Kusabi was an unnamed member of the Shinobazu.  
 In the prologue novelisation, Kusabi is replaced with a samurai.Naruto: Innocent Heart, Demonic Blood epilogue