Title: Kyohō Fuefuki
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Kyohō_Fuefuki
-----------------------

is a shinobi from Kirigakure.

 Background 
When he was younger, Kyohō was a victim of the Funato clan's pillaging, who had burned down his village. The bloodshed had left a lasting impact on Kyohō that had not only physically scarred him, but mentally as well.Boruto episode 238

 Personality 

Due to his traumatic past, Kyohō is a very withdrawn man with deadpan demeanour to himself, rarely speaking more than a few words, always in a stunted manner and hiding his scars from people. Those events also made him very sensitive to the sight of blood, causing him to go in a rage, attacking friend and foe alike. Even after coming to, Kyohō remains noticeably shaken, requiring hours of rest. Like his allies, Kyohō has a great hatred for the peaceful era of the Sixth Mizukage, viewing it as an insult to their heritage as they calmly allow tourists to visit the village. Joining Shizuma Hoshigaki, he sought to restore the "Bloody Mist" era and usurp Chōjūrō. At the same time, as noted by his team-mates, Kyohō is a rather honourable man, unwilling to kill an innocent bystander without good reason.

Following his time in prison, Kyohō seems to have regretted his actions against Kirigakure, having chosen not to join Shizuma in his escape. Despite his aggressive nature in battle, he is quite shy when meeting people, feeling uncertain of how to talk and interact with them. Once getting past his anger or shyness, he is shown to be a very friendly person, willing to forgive others for their mistakes, apologising for his own, and also very loyal to his team-mates, protecting them with his own body. He is willing to show his scars to those he grows close enough with.

 Appearance 
Kyohō is an abnormally tall man with a wide, muscular frame. Like the rest of his team-mates, he has jagged teeth. His head is covered by a white hood, with openings for his eyes, nose, mouth, and ears, which he wears to conceal scars from a Funato clan attack when he was younger. He wears a red, sleeveless, pinstriped shirt with a dark red cord belt around his waist, wrist wraps and leggings in the same style, and baggy grey shorts. He wears his forehead protector on a cord around his neck like a necklace. After Shizuma's declaration of war, he dons a sleeveless black jinbaori war coat with tan lining and grey hemming, worn as a surcoat in the traditional style.

 Abilities 
Kyohō has tremendous raw strength, able to squeeze two shadow clones into dispersing with a single hand each. He can break free from an Earth-Style Wall through brute force. He is also proficient in kenjutsu, able to quickly adjust to using Kabutowari. A single strike of his with Kabutowari was able to shake Funato clan's entire mobile, sea-based fortress. He is able to fight on par with Tenma Funato, one of the clan's strongest members.

 New Era 
 School Trip Arc 

When Shizuma approaches Kagura Karatachi, Kyohō and his comrades accompany him, where he is able to temporarily stop Boruto Uzumaki from attacking his leader, defeating three of his shadow clones. Once Kagura agrees to join their team on the condition that they spare Boruto, he leads the swordsmen into the shinobi swords' vault. After acquiring the blades, with Kyohō taking the Kabutowari, Shizuma voiced more of his plans, noting that he had allies within the ranks of the Water Daimyō who agree with Shizuma's goal of restoring the "Bloody Mist" era. He also intended to place Kagura as the new Mizukage, continuing the vicious reign of the Fourth Mizukage. 

Their first act of revolution was to destroy the Kirigakure Memorial Stone. Before they could destroy it, they were confronted by Boruto and Sarada, along with Chōjūrō. Shizuma was glad at this development and cut off the area with his Crimson Mist Barrier Technique to begin the battle. Hebiichigo manages to restrain the Sixth Mizukage with her blade's strings. From this, Kyohō and his allies voiced their utter disdain for Chōjūrō for "robbing" them of their pride as ninja. He and two of his allies then strike at their subdued foe.

Chōjūrō anticipated their attack patterns and used it to broke free. While the revolutionaries scoffed at Chōjūrō facing them with only a standard katana, Chōjūrō retorted that a weapon is only as powerful as its wielder. Proving his point, he continues to exploit the revolutionaries' key weakness. After Chōjūrō defeats the others, Kyohō admits defeat while apologising. He was then detained by the Mizukage. After the group was defeated and rounded up, the event was covered up by the Mizukage while Kyohō and his team, minus Kagura, were sent to prison for rehabilitation.

 Great Sea Battle of Kirigakure Arc 

Sometime later, Kyohō, along with Buntan Kurosuki and Hebiichigo, were moved to a new state-of-the-art prison. They did not take part in Shizuma's escape, leaving their 10 years sentence unchanged. After the Funato Clan broke out their leader from prison and took over all neighbouring islands, Kagura recruited them three to deal with the situation, even allowing them access to the blades they wielded, though they were branded with cursed seals. Still holding a grudge against Team 7, Kyohō smashed the ground with Kabutowari, claiming to level out a stone. Upon arriving at Dotō Island to help the Konoha Team 5, Kagura decided that only Sarada and Mitsuki would go ahead to spy on the situation. The rest were later approached by a massive structure. Realising it was a fortress ship, Kagura instructed Boruto, Buntan, and Kawaki to investigate the rest remained behind to rendezvous with Mitsuki and Sarada.

After receiving updates from Sarada and Boruto, Kagura took Kyohō and Hebiichigo to the fortress, to aid in destroying its Chakra Cannon. They joined up with Boruto's group, but were attacked by Tenma Funato before deciding how to destroy the cannon. Hebiichigo was injured, and the sight of her blood sent Kyohō in a rage, attacking Tenma. His attack gave Boruto an idea how to deal with the cannon, but in his rage he also attacked Boruto and Kawaki. Kagura knocked Kyohō out, taking up the fight against Tenma with Kawaki. Hebiichigo looked after him. After Boruto used the cannon to destroy the fortress, they escaped on a lifeboat, and were rescued by Sarada's group. The swordsmen celebrated a reduced sentence over their mission's success, their presence surprising Team 5. They all headed back to Kirigakure.

The following morning, after a deep sleep, Kyohō woke up to find Kabutowari bloodstained. Learning that Taiki had been murdered, he panicked and tried to clean it. He was discovered by the other shinobi, and insisted he wasn't responsible. While his team-mates believed him, Iwabee and Boruto kept watch, while everyone else searched the ship for the real culprit. One of the Dotō Islanders claimed to have seen Kyohō going to the captain quarters at night, and asked Kyohō to unmask, wishing to check for Funato clan face marks. Kyohō became distressed and fled, eventually fighting Iwabee. Kawaki caught up to them, and revealed his plan to fake Kyohō's death to lure out the real culprit. The trap worked, with a Funato clansmen that had been hiding inside a refugee's body trying to take over Kyohō. They chased him to the engine room, where he sacrificed himself to damage the engine. Kyohō protected Hebiichigo from the explosion with his body. Later, Iwabee apologised for suspecting Kyohō, who in turn apologised for taking so long to explain himself, revealing he wore his mask to conceal scars.

As the ship was stuck in the middle of the sea, they were found by master shipbuilder Kajiki. Unable to repair the ship at sea, he towed the ship to his port. There, Ninja Swordsmen joined Kagura to report to Kirigakure. On phone, they learned that Chōjūrō had left the village to join the front-lines against the Funato Clan. Later, Kyohō learned from Hebiichigo who spied on Kagura that their sentence only reduced by 3 years. As Hebiichigo insisted they take advantage of their trust from Kagura to kill him and escape, Kyohō remained opposed to the idea, agreeing with Buntan that it would only mean they'd be fugitives for the rest of their lives. Later that night, the island was attacked by the Funato Clan, who began controlling people with leeches, one of which latched onto Buntan, much to Kyohō's confusion. By morning, the Funato Clan was repelled, and Kagura asked for the swordsmen's help. After deciphering a coded message recovered from the Funato, they discovered the sea battle was a distraction, so they could launch a sneak attack on Kirigakure while most of their forces were away. Kagura asked for the swordsmen's help, but they only agreed to it in exchange for a full pardon, which Kagura promised to negotiate with Chōjūrō personally. Kagura took them to his childhood village, which was on the route the Funato forces were taking. Kyohō was responsible for chopping down trees to fortify the village's defences. Kagura's old friends offered to help him and praised his strength, causing him to act bashfully.

The next day, as preparations were completed, Kagura called the swordsmen and removed their cursed seals, not wishing for them to die should he be killed in battle. When word of Funato scouts arrived, the shinobi hid and many of the villagers were evacuated so as not to raise suspicion on the scouts. After they left, Metal revealed that Hebiichigo deserted the group. Despite Sarada's reservations, Kagura trusted Kyohō and Buntan to go retrieve her before she was deemed a fugitive.

Kyohō and Buntan followed the path they believed she'd take, Kyohō certain that Hebiichigo felt lonely over them not defecting with her. Hebiichigo changed her mind after overhearing Funato scouts discussing a counterattack, and informed them. The three arrived in time to fight the Funato, but Funamushi's Water Release: Furious Roaring Tornado took advantage of the enclosed terrain, ravaging the area. The attack was blocked by the timely arrival of Team 5, who caused a landslide. Everyone retreated to the village, where the non-combatants were evacuated, and water sources were blocked to deter Funamushi's jutsu. When the Funato arrived, Kyohō partnered with Iwabee, hammering the earth walls he raised at their opponents. Determined to avenge Seiren, Funamushi drained the blood of his own men to use his jutsu, requiring Kagura to channel most of his chakra into Hiramekarei to cut through it. Left weakened, Kagura was taken hostage by Funamushi, forcing everyone to drop their weapons. They watched in shock as he stabbed Kagura through his chest.

Furious with Funamushi, everyone retaliated. While he initially repelled them with his Water Release, Boruto overpowered him by activating his Kāma and landing a Rasengan, prompting a Funato retreat. His wound too severe, Kagura begged everyone to protect the village, gave Hebiichigo his petition asking for their release, and asked Kyohō to protect her and Buntan before perishing. After his funeral, everyone agreed to follow Sarada's order on the mission. She decided they should stay on the village, as Funamushi was sure to return, still wishing for vengeance.

While recovering from the attack, the village learned their food storage had been destroyed, forcing them to ration food, which Kyohō disliked. However, he joined the others in allowing the villagers to have his rations. The swordsmen wished to pursue the Funato for a counterattack, but Sarada was against this, as leaving the village would leave them vulnerable in case of an attack.

When the Funato attacked again, though they had fewer soldiers, they fought harder. Kyohō landed attacks on many of them, and they counterattacked by piling on him, allowing one of them to pierce his shoulder. The Funato got an advantage when it began to rain, which allowed Funamushi to use his Water Release: Raging Jellyfish to cause widespread destruction. While creating an opening for Boruto to attack, Hebiichigo was fatally wounded by Funamushi, who Boruto did defeat, and who Buntan later killed. As Hebiichigo died, Kyohō cried for her. Later, she was buried next to Kagura, and everyone began rebuilding.

Two days later, the village received relief aid from Kirigakure. Kagura's petition was accepted, Kyohō and Buntan receiving full pardons. The next day, Iwana and Yamame asked him to stay in the village and protect them, something no one ever asked him before. He later refused the offer, as he had to go help Buntan deal with the Funato. That night, after Team 7 returned from an attempt on revenge by Gokai and Funamushi's son Kobuna, it sparked a debate on fighting the Funato. A captured Funato soldier shocked them by revealing that Ikada was Seiren's younger brother.

Having it confirmed on the radio while listening to Araumi's broadcast, even hearing Ikada himself, Kyohō and Buntan opposed Boruto, who wished to return to Kirigakure to stop the war. They wished to get revenge for Kagura and Hebiichigo, and attacked them. Iwabee and Denki protected Team 7, allowing them to escape.

As both sides continued to fight and exhaust themselves, Metal eventually spoke up, insisting that they would bring no peace to Kagura and Hebiichigo if they continued fighting each other and that they must unite for the upcoming war. Buntan and Kyohō ultimately agreed to stop fighting. Putting their differences aside, the group decided to reunite with their allies. They learned that Team 7 had boarded the Funato's main warship. Acquiring a boat, the group sped off to aid Team 7. They arrived in time to watch Boruto sacrifice himself to the Funato to end the war. Between Boruto willingly throwing himself into the raging water to die and his team-mates honouring his sacrifice, Ikada had a change of heart. He saved Boruto and agreed to end the war, a sentiment that was shared with his men.

In the aftermath, Kyohō and Buntan returned to Kagura's and Hebiichigo's graves to tell them of their success. While Buntan resolved to capture Shizuma rather than killing him for revenge, Kyohō decided to remain in Kagura's childhood home to serve as the village's protector.

 Trivia 
 "Kyohō" is a special type of grape that is very popular in Japan, Korea and China. In addition, "Fuefuki" is a city in Japan where Kyohō grapes are known to be grown.