Title: Kōtarō Fūma
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Kōtarō_Fūma
-----------------------

is a tokubetsu jōnin that serves as the head of the Konoha Military Police Force.

 Background 
When Sarada Uchiha was still young, Kōtarō already knew her.

 Personality 
Kōtarō is a very serious and strict person who treats his work with dedication and zeal. However, he is able to act according to justice rather than the law, without inflicting harsh punishments in some cases, as was the case with Hibiki and Kodama. Kōtarō is polite and, even when insulted, tries to respond calmly and with restraint. He is intolerant of those who constantly disturb the order, such as Nezumi Kaitō, and strives to get such individuals into prison as soon as possible. He doesn't require formal appeals due to his status, even from genin, rejoicing in meeting new people. Kōtarō longs for Sarada Uchiha to join the Konoha police force due to the fact that the Uchiha Clan has served in it for generations.

 Appearance 
Kotaro is a rather tall man with wide brown eyes, thick eyebrows, and short brown hair. He wears the standard police uniform, consisting of blue pants and a shirt, along with a special blue vest and cap with the Konoha Military Police Force insignia. He also carries a huge shuriken behind him most of the time, secured by a large belt slung over his left shoulder.

 Abilities 
Being the head of the Konoha Military Police Force, he is assumed to be a talented shinobi. He is very responsible for his work and skilfully manages his subordinates, while personally delving into all the crimes, knowing everything about everyone who has even the slightest part in the committed action. Kōtarō has highly developed analytical skills, and he accurately points out non-coincidences that later turn out to be correct, helping to solve the crime. He pays attention to the smallest details and invisible people, bringing them to the fore to solve complex problems, which in most cases turns out to be a success. As a member of the Fūma Clan, he carries a Fūma Shuriken on his back that he is presumably skilled in utilising. He also has a tantō with a bandaged hilt in a sheath on his right leg.

 New Era 
 Genin Mission Arc 

Kōtarō directed the cordon off of a bank that Haguruma threatened to blow up. Not wanting any more casualties, Kōtarō made no attempt to get inside, so Team 7 arrived to help them. He rejoiced at their arrival and expressed his confidence that Sarada would join the Military Police Force in the future. After Boruto convinced Haguruma not to set off the explosion and deactivated the bomb with Lightning Release, Kōtarō was surprised by the flashes of lightning coming from the bank building, and encounters the failed robber when Boruto took him outside and took him in for questioning. At the police station, after realising that Haguruma had been pressured into by the influence of the Byakuya Gang, Kōtarō freed him.

 Byakuya Gang Arc 

Kōtarō learned that the bank situation was a distraction for a jewel theft from a special freezer fault, and due to how secure the vault was, suspected an inside job. When the investigation yielded no results, he enlisted the recently promoted genin to expand it, instructing them to immediately report if the Byakuya Gang appeared. Iwabee ignored the order by engaging the bang during another robbery, which resulted in Metal Lee being injured and taken to the hospital, their team being suspended from the investigation. When Gekkō controlled civilians to incite a riot against the Kaminarimon Company as a distraction, Kōtarō deployed all available shinobi to protect the company. Despite being suspended, Denki reached out to Kōtarō to explain the possibility of the rioters being affected by genjutsu. When the theory was confirmed, Kōtarō passed it along to break the genjutsu calm the riot. After Naruto captured Gekkō, Kōtarō interrogated him.

 Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc 

After Uō and Saō were attacked by unknown assilants, Kōtarō investigated an incident near Konoha's main gate with his police officers. When Sai came to learn new information, Kōtarō had nothing to offer, but noted that the investigation was ongoing.

 Mujina Bandits Arc 

Kōtarō was part of the briefing of Team 7's mission to infiltrate Hōzuki Castle to verify the information about the Mujina Bandits offered by Kokuri in exchange for protection. Despite getting Kokuri's information, after several months of investigating, Kōtarō and the police force were no closer to bringing down the Mujina Bandits.

One day, Kōtarō arrested three wanted criminals from the Bingo Book after a new member of Team 15, Tsubaki Kurogane, defeated them.

When Nezumi Kaitō stole jewellery in the village, the police failed to catch him and asked Team 7 for help. Together they cornered Nezumi, but he managed to hide among the drunks in the alley. Kōtarō arrested everyone as he suspects the thief was among them. However, due to lack of evidence, he had to release them. Not believing any of them, Kōtarō put all the detainees under surveillance and soon found out that Nezumi fed the stolen jewels to a cat. Together with Team 7, the police cornered Nezumi when he tried to kill the cat and take the jewellery, and arrested him.

Later, when the police determined that Kaneki, president of the Kaneki Corporation, was being targeted by the Rain Killer, Kōtarō assigned Team 7 to work with him on guard duty. Together they arriveed at Kaneki's residence, but Kaneki rudely refused their services, trusting his guard more. Kōtarō politely accepted the refusal, but secretly set up Team 7 to guard the residence by hiding them on the roof. Some time later, Samidare Amaashi, pretending to be a police officer, kidnapped Kaneki and Kōtarō informed Team 7 about this.

 Kara Actuation Arc 

When learning of Kara and concerned that there might be a spy in the village, Naruto talked with the various officials including Kōtarō about closing off the gates to the village. Kōtarō supported the idea, mentioning previous incidents resulting from infiltrators, and noted there were indeed visitors who disliked Konohagakure.

 Great Sea Battle of Kirigakure Arc 

Kōtarō worked alongside Team 7 in investigating a series of attacks to former Wind Release-using shinobi, gathering information from similar attacks in other villages. Together, they discovered that a person of interest in another series of crimes was likely a target, and uncovered the real reason behind the attacks by Kodama and Hibiki.

 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

After an explosion occurred at the festival at the academy, Kōtarō investigated the incident and interviewed Kawaki, Himawari, and Eiki. As Kawaki was removed from his mission, Kōtarō didn't share any information with him. Later, after Kae Yukiwari was attacked by the assassin who committed suicide while fighting Kawaki, Kōtarō inspected the body and informed Kawaki that he would report his presence to the Hokage, as he has been suspended from his mission to protect Kae.

 Trivia 
 Kōtarō's full name is derived from the famous shinobi Fūma Kotarō. Masashi Kishimoto originally designed Gaara with this name in mind.