Title: Kūi Dōtonbori
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Kūi_Dōtonbori
-----------------------

, also known as the "Sweeper of the Pot Bottoms", is a competitive eater and a member of Exploding-Till-You-Eat.

 Background 
Kūi and his son, Daore, travel the land taking part in food competitions wherever they may occur. Kūi has competed against Chōji Akimichi during several prior contests and has lost to Chōji each time. For this reason, he considers Chōji his rival.

 Appearance 
Kūi is described as a muscular man who is just as tall as his son is fat, which is to say he is very tall. He does not wear a shirt in the novel.

 New Era 
 Naruto Shinden: Parent and Child Day 

Kūi and Daore participate in Konohagakure's annual food eating competition. Because this year's contest falls on Parent and Child Day, only parents and their children can enter. Kūi does not believe any of the other competitors pose a challenge to him, describing them all as "small builds, small appetites". The one exception is Chōji Akimichi, who Kūi looks forward to competing against again. When Chōji can't remember ever having met Kūi before, Kūi is insulted and vows to defeat him.

Kūi and Daore end up being one of three parent-and-child teams to make it to the final round. Of the three teams, Shikamaru and Shikadai Nara end up being disqualified for vomiting, Daore faints from eating too much, and Chōji loses consciousness because some lettuce from the previous round gets caught in his throat. Kūi ridicules all of them for being weak. Believing his victory is guaranteed, Kūi starts eating the final round's food: dumplings from Ankorodō. Due to interference from Ankorodō's owner, the dumplings cause Kūi to vomit. Chōji and his daughter, Chōchō Akimichi, end up being declared the victors.

In the anime, the two instead are in league with the Ankorodō's owner, and she rigged the competition in favour of the Dōtonbori, ensuring their Lightning Burgers are not spicy, and their dumpling bowls are shallower than the Akimichi's. However, Boruto Uzumaki caught on, and switched the rigged dumpling bowls to the regular ones, and ultimately, when the Ankorodō owner was exposed for her cheat, the three were scolded by Shikamaru Nara.

 Time Slip Arc 

Some time later, Kūi and his son went to a flea market in Konohagakure to look for new clothing. They ironically found what they were looking for from their hated rivals in Chōji and Chōchō. While they were infuriated that the Akimichi didn't recognise them, they still decided to buy from the father and daughter. 

 Trivia 
 His given name of Kūi references kuidaore, "eat 'til you drop", while his surname could reference the Osaka district associated with that phrase.

pt-br:Kuui Doutonbori