Title: Magire Kakuremino
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Magire_Kakuremino
-----------------------

is a citizen of Konohagakure.

 Background 
Magire attended the Academy in a different class from Sumire Kakei. Shy by nature and always going unnoticed, Magire was very alone. Eventually, he was noticed by Sumire, who was nice and talked to him. This eventually made Magire develop a crush on her.Boruto episode 7

 Personality 
Magire is shown to be a very shy and insecure boy. While wanting to be noticed and accepted by others, he lacks the confidence to approach them directly. Due to the consistent kindness of Sumire, he eventually developed feelings for her. During his possession, he showed to be very tactical and methodical, systematically removing his opponents as an obstacle one by one.

 Appearance 
Despite his shyness, he is apparently considered rather handsome, as noted by Chōchō Akimichi. Magire is a fairly tall boy for his age. He is pale-skinned with straight long brown hair that parts down the centre of his forehead and reaches his upper back. He wears grey pants and a white long-sleeved shirt with a white mantle over it reaching his waist.

 Abilities 
Fitting his shy nature, Magire's specialty in combat is concealment. He is shown to be very stealthy, able to move about with even an experienced shinobi like Shino Aburame not noticing him. He also excels in the Cloak of Invisibility Technique, enabling him to hide from full view of others. He has considerable skill in shurikenjutsu, showing sleight-of-hand with them and able to launch multiple kunai with great accuracy and quick succession, which combined with his concealing skills allow him to keep his enemies off guard.

 New Era 
 Academy Entrance Arc 

Unable to approach Sumire and admit to his feelings for her, Magire began stalking her. Eventually, he was caught and confronted by Sumire and her friends. When Chōchō assumed he was stalking her, Magire quickly denied it while unintentionally revealing it was Sumire he liked. Chōchō told him to be forward with his feelings, to which Magire meekly did. Despite his efforts of asking her out, Sumire turned him down, leaving him distraught and running away in shame. Later, a shadow spectre was drawn to Magire's sadness and possessed him. 

The following day, Magire's affection towards Sumire turned dark, leaving notes to her everywhere. Eventually, Magire was able to draw her away from her friends and kidnapped her. When her friends found them, Magire quickly attacked them with his concealment skills. Eventually, Chōchō was able to reach Magire, noting that such an indecisive nature will never win anyone over. Accepting his poor methods of trying to make Sumire like him, the spectre was rejected from Magire. As Magire began to apologise for his actions, he fainted, resulting from severe chakra drain caused by his possession. Sumire and her friends quickly took him to the hospital.

 Trivia 
 Magire's name could be a shortening of , which can mean "to disappear into" or "to do something under the cover of (confusion, etc.)".