Title: Mamushi
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Mamushi
-----------------------

was an evolved, self-aware Human God Tree produced by Code's Ten-Tails after one of his Claw Grimes consumed Bug and transformed into a tree.

 Personality 
Mamushi is a detached, indifferent man. Generally, he only talks when he feels a true need for it, to which in a very casual manner. At the same time, he is somewhat sadistic, as he will laugh at and mock someone's agony, even if said victim was his creator, Code. He also fears enraging Jura, making a point of avoiding any such provocation. His instinct has directed him towards wanting to devour Ada as he desires her advanced genes for the sake of making the Human God Trees prosper. When confronting those not of significance to him, he talks rather politely. At the same time, he is not above randomly killing people.

 Appearance 

Mamushi greatly resembles Bug and so takes on the appearance of a short, elderly humanoid with several missing teeth and an extremely long white beard. Like the other self-aware Human God Trees he wears clothing made from Claw Marks, with a studded band covering his nose and a long studded tabard with an oversized indigo fur collar draped over his body. Though he otherwise appears human, he possesses a pair of purple Rinnegan and tridactyl feet similar to those of the Claw Grimes.

 Abilities 
Being a sentient Human God Tree, Mamushi is considered a monster with power well-above his own creator Code.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 4, page 37Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 6, page 9 

 Shinjutsu 

Like his comrades, Mamushi can move through Claw Marks for transportation and can freely levitate himself to fly about, Mamushi possesses the ability to self-replicate. While similar in nature to the Fission Technique, this ability can also create as many individual recreations as desired, and with no drop in chakra levels or physical might. He can also use Fire Release to unleash powerful flame streams.

 Physical and Chakra Prowess 
Mamushi has shown to have exceptional speed and strength, enough to catch Boruto off guard and slam him against a cliff wall with enough force to cause it to partially crumble. He also has the ability to transform his arms into a giant maw somewhat resembling a carnivorous plant. He has exceptional sensor capacities, able to detect that Ada was spying on him through her Senrigan. He likewise can suppress his chakra from being sensed by others.

 New Era: Part II 
 Boruto's Return Arc 

When Boruto Uzumaki followed Code to the dimension where he kept his Ten-Tails imprisoned, what remained of it suddenly disappeared. Moments later, Mamushi appeared, surprising Code as the actual Bug that had been transformed into tree still remained nearby. Boruto explained that Mamushi wasn't the man named Bug and was, in fact, a Human God Tree, having evolved into a new form due to Code's modifications. He proceeded to attack Boruto, threatening to devour him and naming him an Ōtsutsuki. Three other evolved Human God Trees then appeared, each bearing a familiar likeness, with the apparent leader explaining that they had gained self-awareness.

Following Boruto and Code's retreat, the leader declared that their newly awakened curiosity was temporarily overwhelming their instinct to devour, but that Boruto would not be able to escape his fate. He later joined the other Human God Trees in their base beneath the roots of a giant tree, where they discussed their newly developing individual identities and the emotions stimulating them, which were producing cravings that they couldn't explain. The leader, Jura, suggested that they follow their instincts and choose targets to devour, believing that it would enlighten them as to their true nature. Bug's Human God Tree clone realised that Ada was watching them using her Senrigan and to her dismay, approached her projection, declaring that she would be his target.

Later, as Hidari was destroyed by Boruto and Jura prepared to kill the ninja, Mamushi appeared, informing him that investigations have revealed that Boruto has an accomplice, explaining the intimate knowledge he has about the Human God Trees. As Mamushi noticed Hidari's Thorn Soul Bulb, he reminded Jura that they needed to restore Hidari quickly before the bulb rots. The Human God Trees then returned to their lair. There, after reviving Hidari, they joined the group in the birth of a new sentient Human God Tree, Ryū. As the new sentient Human God Tree adjusted to his new identity, it was noticed that Code was hiding and he was captured. The lone Kara member demanded that the Human God Trees go after Kawaki and Boruto to produce Chakra Fruit for him to consume. As Jura made it clear that Code is not in charge anymore, Code recklessly attacked the Human God Tree leader, losing his right hand in the process. Mamushi laughed at Code's plight. When Jura offered instead to give Code a Chakra Fruit after he killed Boruto and his accomplice. Code accepted and left.

 Matsuri and Ryū Arc 

Later, after Matsuri and Ryū left for a mission to find Boruto, Mamushi listened as Jura explained to his fellow God Trees about his revelation. He concluded that the sentient God Trees are not dissimilar to humans, as their emotions can easily be shaken and changed, which can prove a key weakness to their defeat.

 Mamushi Arc 

As Jura began crying after finishing a novel, voicing his belief that they needed more intel on feelings of love, Mamushi came to the revelation on why he desired to devour Ada. He believed that her superior genes would grant great information for the Human God Trees. Days later, Mamushi made his move on Konoha to get Ada. He used his Division and snuck in with his chakra signature erased. Mamushi asks around to some civilians where Ada is. After they have no answer, he plans to decides killing. Suddenly, the Mamushis are stopped when confronted by Boruto, who swiftly deals with some of them. As their numbers begin to overwhelm Boruto, and hit him with a Fire Release, he activates his Kama to absorb the flames.

With the enhanced power of his mark, Boruto began swiftly dispatching the various Mamushis. As the remaining Mamushis realised they were being hunted somehow despite suppressing their chakra, they began dividing in larger numbers, spreading out in the village to find Ada. The Mamushis were then intercepted by Team 10, Himawari Uzumaki, and Kawaki, whose combined efforts were keeping the Mamushi numbers down.

Growing desperate, Mamushi began replicating himself into the hundreds, spreading throughout the village, yet still refrained from killing random bystanders. Eventually, he found the Fire Daimyō's chief advisor, Kobu, unaware that the man was being controlled by Inojin Yamanaka. With Koji Kashin determined to kill the advisor to preserve Shikamaru Nara's status as Hokage, he made his toad on Kobu attack the God Tree, prompting Mamushi to attack him in retribution.

Refusing to let the innocent man die, Inojin maintained his control of Kobu and tried to get him to safety, which proved a struggle with the middle-aged man's limited physical prowess. Ultimately, the Mamushis cornered their target and blasted him with flames, only for Boruto arrive and swiftly strike them down and absorb the flames. 

At the same time, other Mamushis began growing restless and started lashing out at each other with their reduced intelligence. Ultimately, as the Mamushis began dividing into the hundreds, the Konoha team decided to change tactics. Boruto approached some Mamushis and conceded to lead them to Ada. This prompted all the Mamushis to join up. Upon seeing Ada, with Daemon, the Mamushis began arguing with each other on who would absorb her. Ada flew away with Daemon on her back, luring the Mamushis away and to gather together. Once close enough, Daemon took to the ground and began his counterattack, reflecting their attacks and striking them down with his own assault. As the divisions continued their relentless effort to consume Ada, the Konoha team arrived to battle back against the threat. While soon getting the hundreds of Mamushis down to under 50, their plan to wipe them remainder out in one assault failed when Sarada fainted from overusing her Mangekyō Sharingan. The remaining Mamushis, now filled with survival instinct, multiplied into the thousands.

As the Mamushis continued their relentless pursuit of Ada, Inojin was summoned to the field. With it deduced that the Divisions shared a hive mind, Inojin transferred his mind into a Mamushi, subsequently taking control of all the Mamushis. He then alerted Daemon, directing killing intent on the boy so he would reflect it back on the Mamushis and destroy their eyes, the only means for Mamushi to continue dividing. Following this, all the Mamushis collapsed and disintegrated. This also produced Mamushi's Thornsoul Bulb, which Boruto took, intent on freeing Bug with it.

Upon reaching Bug's tree, Boruto was attacked by Code. This distraction, combined with not having properly preserved the Thornsoul Bulb, led to Mamushi's core rotting away into nothing. This, by extension, led to Mamushi's permanent death as well as Bug's.
 Trivia 
 His name is written with the kanji 虫, meaning "bug", in reference to the person he was cloned from, though the kanji is also used to describe worms and snakes. The kana reading, "Mamushi", is a species of pit viper.