Title: Maruta
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Maruta
-----------------------

is a hawk trainer that lives in the mountains. He is also the caretaker to the famous Senri Hawk.

 Background 
Maruta established himself in the mountains, raising and teaching the hawks there. Over the years, many individuals, including powerful ninja, came seeking a Senri Hawk of their own, but few were ever able to earn any of the hawks' acknowledgment and failed to earn one.

 Personality 
Maruta is man of simple needs. He cares for birds and values the delicate nature of the ecosystem, not wanting to endanger the well-being of the birds he cares for. He firmly believes that respect between bird and man is needed to form a working relationship. He cares not for material gain over the birds, and even more will not cave to threats and intimidation. He is a very compassionate man, willing to help care for and teach children who seek shelter.

 Appearance 
Maruta is a tall and fit elderly man of light complexion with minor wrinkles. He has blue eyes, a define jawline with high cheekbones, short, spiky white hair with large sideburns, and long moustache.

 Abilities 
Maruta is an experienced and accomplished bird breeder. He knows how to properly tend to their health and train them as messengers. He also has some skill with a crossbow, able to accurately hit his targets.

 New Era 
 Labyrinth Game Arc 

When Mozu Shitakiri approached him about the location of the Senri Hawks, he refused to risk the endangered species even when he was offered a large sum of money. Soon after, various mishaps befell Maruta, who realised right away that Mozu was behind it. Later, Sasuke Uchiha and Boruto Uzumaki arrived. After initially believing them to be Mozu's hired men, Maruta explained the situation. Later that night, Maruta accepted Sasuke's request to acquire a Senri Hawk. After escaping their pursuit from Mozu's men to keep the location secret, Maruta brought Sasuke to the cave. There, Maruta explained that the key to mastering one of the hawks was actually to let them choose their master. To Maruta's surprise, one quickly accepted Sasuke. Maruta was impressed, having suspected true strength of character in the ninja.

Upon returning to Maruta's home, they learned that Boruto had befriended Mozu's son, Tsuzura. After the two were able to help the boy find the confidence to leave his mother's abuse, Maruta agreed to take him as an apprentice.

 Trivia 
 "Maruta" (丸太) means "log".