Title: Matsuri (God Tree)
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Matsuri_(God_Tree)
-----------------------

was an evolved, self-aware Human God Tree produced by Code's Ten-Tails after one of his Claw Grimes ate Moegi Kazamatsuri and transformed into a tree.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 14, page 9

 Personality 
Compared to the other self-aware Human God Trees, Matsuri had a somewhat cruel and mocking personality, belittling Code for his reckless actions and getting used by others. Because she was created from Moegi's chakra, her newly-formed individuality was shaped by Moegi's emotions and bonds. Her feelings were especially stimulated by thoughts of Team 10 and Konohamaru Sarutobi, and as a result of her instinct to consume chakra being altered by her evolution, she had chosen Konohamaru as the target she wished to devour. Later however, this focus on Konohamaru evolved into romantic feelings, becoming unsure of how to approach the man. To which, once finally meeting him in person, Matsuri became shy and frazzled around him. Apparently, these feelings had also developed a jealous nature, not liking the idea of other women being close to Konohamaru.

 Appearance 

Matsuri strongly resembles Moegi Kazamatsuri and shared her general stature and physique, but lacked eyebrows and hair. Like the other self-aware Human God Trees she wore clothing made from Claw Marks, including a long, striped, four-pointed, magenta collar and a black studded hood resembling the shape of Moegi's hair, which gives her the appearance of a harlequin. She also wore a black studded bodysuit. Though she otherwise appears human, she possessed a pair of purple Rinnegan and tridactyl feet similar to those of the Claw Grimes, which are clad in black studded bands that resemble high-heeled ankle boots.

 Abilities 
Being a sentient Human God Tree, Matsuri was considered a monster with power well-above her own creator Code.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 4, page 37Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 6, page 9 To which, she was shown able to easily overpower the Fifth Kazekage and Team Shinki combined,Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 15, page 2-3 as well as almost kill Konohamaru Sarutobi despite being severely damaged by his surprise attack. Although Boruto Uzumaki managed to destroy her easily, he commented that he only managed to do so because she was already severely damaged by Konohamaru's attacks.

She could use Earth and Water Release to produce Wood Release, which she can use to manipulate roots,Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 13, page 41 and transform her clothing into wood.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 18, page 32 Using Earth Release, Matsuri could produce gravel that was strong enough to completely restrain Boruto.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 4, pages 36-37 She also has advanced Sensor Type abilities, able to use the trees in the area to extend her perception and detect people. As a form of botanical and nature communication, Matsuri was also able to listen and speak to trees that reside deep below ground of a desert, which told her of Boruto's past presence in the area, and she even planned to use the tree's voices to track Boruto further, as "trees are everywhere, even deep below ground".Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 17, pages 3-5

 New Era: Part II 
 Boruto's Return Arc 

When Boruto followed Code to the dimension where he kept his Ten-Tails imprisoned, what remained of it suddenly disappeared. Moments later, a creature resembling Bug appeared and attacked Boruto, who explained that the creature was a Human God Tree, having evolved into a new form due to Code's modifications.

Matsuri appeared soon after along with two other evolved Human God Trees, Hidari and their apparent leader, Jura, who explained that they had gained self-awareness. Matsuri mocked Code, declaring that it was his destiny to be a clown that gets used by others. She used Earth Release: Gravel to briefly imprison Boruto in stone.

Following Boruto and Code's retreat, Jura declared that their newly awakened curiosity was temporarily overwhelming their instinct to devour, but that Boruto would not be able to escape his fate.

Matsuri later joined the other sentient Human God Trees in their base beneath the roots of a giant tree, where they discussed their newly developing individual identities and the emotions stimulating them, which were producing cravings that they couldn't explain. Through Moegi's chakra she could feel the despair and anger experienced by Team 10 and Konohamaru after they discovered she had been transformed into a tree. In response, Jura suggested that they would be defined by their actions and should follow their instincts and choose targets to devour, believing that it would enlighten them as to their true nature. Matsuri decided that her target would be Konohamaru, with Jura praising the choice.

Later, Mamushi's investigations on Boruto discovered that the boy had an accomplice who was giving him intimate knowledge about the Human God Trees. This led Matsuri to Sunagakure, where she was confronted by the Fifth Kazekage and Team Shinki. As they tried to subdue her, the Human God Tree easily repelled their efforts. As Gaara was severely injured, Matsuri sent her Claw Grimes on him. Shinki reacted first by encasing his father in his Magnet Iron Grain Seal Palm to protect him. instead the Claw Grimes attacked Shinki and one consumed him. Matsuri was impressed how even after Shinki was consumed, his barrier remained active, commending Shinki for his determination to protect the Kazekage. Eager to see what Shinki's essence would provide in a new team-mate, she later joined her allies in the birth of a new sentient Human God Tree from Shinki, Ryū.

As the new sentient Human God Tree adjusted to his new identity, it was noticed that Code was hiding and he was captured. The lone Kara member demanded that the Human God Trees go after Kawaki and Boruto to produce Chakra Fruit for him to consume. As Jura made it clear that Code is not in charge anymore, and that they were too powerful for Code, Jura offered instead to give Code a Chakra Fruit after he killed Boruto and his unknown accomplice. Code accepted and left.

 Matsuri and Ryū Arc 

Later, Matsuri joined Ryū in the Land of Wind. There, they observe a dead nin-toad, having presumably killed it, with Matsuri stating it to be a clue to finding Boruto. Suddenly, they were approached by Team 7, along with Yodo and Araya. The sight of Konohamaru left Matsuri flushed and bashful. The shinobi claimed they were hunting down Boruto. With their respective missions apparently the same, it was agreed to work together. Soon, Konohamaru convinced they split up to better their search, Matsuri being paired up with Konohamaru while Ryū joined the kids. This left Matsuri even more frazzled.

As the two continued to talk, Matsuri describing to Konohamaru how she still struggles to figure out who she is, she asks if she can refer to him as "Konohamaru-chan", disturbed by this, Konohamaru asks that she not do so, as only one other person calls him that. Realising that Konohamaru was referring to Moegi, the frazzled God Tree quickly became irritable, demanding to know what his relationship is to Moegi. As Matsuri continues to grow angrier at Konohamaru's refusal of her requests, she decides that she doesn't want to deal with these emotions anymore, enveloping Konohamaru with her Wood Release to consume him. 

As Matsuri's Wood Release began engulfing Konohamaru, he begged Matsuri to not be so reckless. She insisted that she needed to do this, he noticed she began crying. He pointed this out to her, insisting this meant she didn't want to do this. As she again became conflicted, Konohamaru asked her to let him hold her hand. She agreed, finding his warm touch soothing. This opening let Konohamaru counterattack with his Big Ball Spiralling Serial Spheres, obliterating Matsuri's hands and lower half to free him. A furious Matsuri continued her assault, using her Wood Release as makeshift limbs to continue her attack. As Matsuri pinned Konohamaru down and prepared to devour him, Boruto appeared, slashing her into pieces before she could react.

After Boruto destroyed Matsuri and collected her Thornsoul Bulb, he handed it over to Konohamaru and instructed him to leave to reunite with Sarada and Mitsuki, who were waiting for them. When Jura suddenly appeared, Boruto decided to delay the leader of the Human God Trees so Konohamaru could escape. After Boruto and Kawaki joined the group at the rendezvous point, they set off for Konoha to use Matsuri's Thornsoul to free Moegi. Upon arrival, Konohamaru successfully freed Moegi with the Thornsoul, resulting in Matsuri's death.

 Trivia 
  means "festival" and is derived from Moegi's surname, Kazamatsuri.