Title: Menō (ninja)
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Menō_(ninja)
-----------------------

was a member of the Shirogane Clan, who appeared in Naruto: Uzumaki Chronicles 2. 

 Background 
Not much is known about Menō's past. But it can be presumed that, as a member of the Shirogane clan, as well as one of the Shirogane Three, she grew up under Ibushi's care.

 Personality 
Menō appeared to have a bitter side to her in her views of humanity, preferring puppets over humans. She was also cold, merciless, and childish when playing with her enemies.

 Appearance 
Menō had blonde hair tied up into a ponytail behind her head. She also had yellow-coloured eyes and tan bandages wrapped around her arms. As with the rest of the Shirogane Clan, she wore a purple onmyōji–like outfit that had the clan symbol at the front that covers her thighs, holding it together was a dark red sash wrapped around her outfit, a fishnet undershirt underneath it, a light yellow scroll, carried on her lower back, and short pants with shinobi sandals.

 Abilities 
Menō was a skilled puppeteer shinobi who was also very proficient in the Transformation Technique, as seen when she assumed Sakura's form during her battle against Naruto, Gaara, and Kankurō. She was able to not only mimick someone's outward appearance, but also their weapons, abilities, and fighting style.

 Plot Overview 
She trapped Naruto, Sakura, and Lee when they visited a bandit hideout, but they managed to escape. She later tried to retrieve the blue spirit orb in Kigan Hill. When Kankurō, Naruto, and Lee tried to stop her, they found she was protected by a barrier. After breaking the barrier, she summoned a hornet drone, and escaped. She appeared again later while assuming the identity of Sakura. After her defeat, she returned back to her normal form, and summoned three more insect drones. Naruto, Kankurō, and Gaara defeated the drones, but one of the drones took the spirit orb and escaped. Menō attempted to kill them along with her, killed in the explosion. However, the Konoha-nin managed to escape from the burning castle.

 Trivia 
  literally means "agate".

pt-br:Menō (Shirogane)