Title: Merz
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Merz
-----------------------

is a character from Naruto x Boruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm Connections.

 Background 
A former Amegakure shinobi who idolised the goals of Pain, and followed the Akatsuki. He was blinded during the Amegakure civil war. He would later gather a following of destitute ninja who wished to return to the age of warfare and founded the organisation Zero.

 Personality 
Merz seemed fundamentally polite, but believed in obtaining godhood in the same vein as Pain, without the same interest in the peace that would follow the inevitable conflict. He has no issues using others for his own ends, treating them as weapons.

 Abilities 
Merz was a powerful shinobi, considered worthwhile enough by Pain himself to consider an ally. While inferior to Naruto Uzumaki and Sasuke Uchiha, Merz was still capable of fighting them both off, though they had been weakened by fighting each other during the prelude to the Fifth Shinobi World War.

 Dōjutsu 
 Sharingan 
left|
Due to the machinations of Teguse, who used Scientific Ninja Tools, Merz was able to be implanted with artificial Sharingan. Unlike other implanted Sharingan users, Merz showed neither fatigue nor severe chakra drain from utilising the Sharingan. He did, however, keep them sealed, until it was time to use them, similarly to Ao. Unlike normal Sharingan, these artificial eyes were capable of copying other dōjutsu that could only be used by certain bloodlines. Notably both of his new eye sockets incorporated machinery. His left eye socket being almost completely cybernetically rebuilt. This had left his new eye bulging out and a poor fit.

 Mangekyō Sharingan 

As he had Mangekyō Sharingan in both eyes, Merz was capable of using Susanoo, a feat which surprised Sasuke Uchiha. Having trained to master the eyes, Merz's Susanoo is a Complete Body — Susanoo. It takes a gargantuan size, dwarfing even Sasuke's Susanoo. With this, Merz can use the Yasaka Magatama, and fend off a weakened Majestic Attire: Susanoo from Naruto and Sasuke.

 Plot Overview 
Merz recruited Teguse from Konoha's Scientific Weapons Team to join his organization after Katasuke and Konoha found that Teguse was performing inhuman experiments. He tasked Teguse to make a virtual game called Ninja Heroes with a virtual playset and invisible seal that would steal the player's chakras and gain access to their memories under the false pretense that whoever wins the game will win a replica of the First Hokage's Necklace. After people worldwide were getting tired and fainting without reasons, Naruto opened an investigation about what was happening. Naruto was able to connect the symptoms to the Ninja Heroes virtual game and warned Boruto about it and he putted the village on high alert shut down where genins stayed at the village and chunin and jounin level personnel were to complete their missions within a time limit. 

Merz caused a fake Infinite Tsukuyomi which lead to the people marked with "blemishes" to be controlled which almost caused the Fifth Great Shinobi War. Hinata immediately told Boruto what has happened where he meet up with Sarada, Mitsuki, Shikadai, Inojin, Katasuke, and Sasuke to explain the details of the investigation of what was happening. Sasuke immediately deduced that there was a seal jutsu invisible to the naked eye on the virtual game headset with his Rinnegan. Sasuke went to stop Naruto. Boruto was to retrieve Naruto's memories with Toneri's help. The rest of the group were to locate Zero's hideout. Everyone succeeds with their tasks.

Merz is confronted by Boruto, Sasuke, and the cured Naruto. Merz was unable to defeat Boruto, Sasuke, and Naruto despite he had the implanted artificial sharingans. With the incident resolved, everything was put back to normal. 

 Trivia 
 Merz is a nonsense German word created by dada artist Kurt Schwitters to describe his scrap assemblage works.
 Merz's status is unknown since Boruto had gone back in time and prevented the events of the game from ever occurring.

pt-br:Merz