Title: Metoro Konjiki
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Metoro_Konjiki
-----------------------

was a terrorist of Ishigakure and Etoro Konjiki's younger twin brother. Metoro, alongside his brother, specialised in destroying buildings or merchant ships.

 Personality 
Compared to his older brother, Etoro, Metoro was very taciturn and the more silent of the two.

 Appearance 
Metoro wore a flashy ring on one of his fingers. Not much else is known about his appearance, except that with Metoro and his brother being twins, they were similar in appearance, as Gaara noted them using their appearance as a factor in tricks.

 Abilities 
Metoro was capable of combining two unknown natures to use the Steel Release kekkei genkai, with which he was able to create balls of steel in the form of projectiles, to use in unison with his older brother's Lava Release techniques, and steel shields. He also showed some capability in genjutsu, combining it with a basic Clone Technique to trick his targets into making the first move, leaving themselves open to cooperative attacks. Gaara noted that Metoro and his older brother, Etoro Konjiki had large war potential.

 Blank Period 
 Gaara Hiden: A Sandstorm Mirage 
Metoro and his older twin brother Etoro were in an organisation of terrorists, who were targeting Gaara, with the Kazekage recognising the two terrorists from the Bingo Book. As the two boasted about their achievements, Gaara attacked them with his Sand Binding Coffin, but it was revealed to be just a Clone Technique in unison with genjutsu. When Gaara noticed them on the ceiling, Metoro created a ball of steel and his brother created a ring of fire for it to go through, aiming the attack at Hakuto. Their combined attack, however, was withstood by the Kazekage's Shield of Sand with support from his Wind Release. Surrounded in sand, the brothers readied their second attack, but Shijima came to back-up Gaara, throwing a bunch of hōshuriken to distract the two, with Etoro melting them. However, the compressed air in the hōshuriken greatly injured Etoro. As Metoro was distracted by his brother's injuries, Gaara took the opportunity to slice Metoro with his sand sword, killing him. His body then fell off the ledge of the building.

Metoro was later shown to have survived the fall, but was killed in the desert by Gaara, when the terrorist appeared during the Kazekage's battle against Shigezane.

 Trivia 
Metoro's last name, , literally means "golden colour".

pt-br:Metoro Konjiki