Title: Mezu (missing-nin)
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Mezu_(missing-nin)
-----------------------

Mezu is a missing-nin from Konohagakure and leader of the Mezu Gang.

 Background 
Mezu at some point abandoned Konoha after killing innocent people. His actions led to him be listed in the Bingo Book. 

 Personality 
Mezu is a very relaxed and indifferent man. Considering the era of ninja over, Mezu believes their efforts are pointless. He is very charismatic, having gained the loyalty of many men. Mezu is very methodical and alert to details. He tends to ramble and monologue his views. Devoid of compassion, he had no problem kicking a kitten aside because it annoyed him. He is willing to ignore ninja who he does not see as threats should they not get in his way.

 Appearance 
Mezu is tall, middle-aged man. He has mild wrinkles around his mouth and lidded eyes with creases under them. His hair is shaggy, dark, shoulder-length hair with patches of light colouring. Each of his eyes is a different colour. He has a fair complexion with a scar his left eye, hairless brows, slash-like markings across the right side of his face. He dresses akin to a cowboy. This includes a white undershirt with upturned collars, dark jacket and pants, light chaps, a light poncho with slash markings designed on the back, a light scarf around his neck, and a large hat. On the hat, he wears his forehead protector, where similar to the Akatsuki, he has completely scratched off the Konoha emblem. He also wears dark gloves, sandals with high legging reaching his ankles, and a gun holster.

 Abilities 
Mezu's place in the Bingo Book shows him to be a dangerous individual. He has strong resilience against genjutsu, although he credited his release to Mirai only being a child. His signature weapon is a pistol with a blade at the end. With it, he can skillfully deflect a barrage of kunai. Shikamaru notes he is very fast in his escapes.

 New Era 
 Konoha Shinden: Steam Ninja Scrolls 

Mezu and his gang had plotted to assassinate a wealthy tourist that was visiting Konoha. In the outskirts of the village, Mezu was seemingly speaking to another individual, stating that the era of shinobi had ended. Mezu noticed he was spotted by a genin and what he had assumed initially was a ninneko. Thinking she found him by mistake, Mezu had planned to spare her, until Mirai mentioned him by name. A fight broke out between the Mezu Gang and Mirai, the young genin cast a genjutsu on the gang, but it had no effect. Before he could kill Mirai, Mezu was stopped by Shikamaru Nara. The gang was quick to leave upon his arrival. Soon after however, Mezu and his gang were effortlessly defeated by the Sixth Hokage.

 Trivia 
 Mezu may be named after , a horse-faced demon in Japanese mythology responsible for escorting souls into Hell alongside his ox-headed partner, Gozu.