Title: Midare
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Midare
-----------------------

was a genin from Amegakure.

 Personality 
Midare was very over-confident in his and Shigure's abilities. He talked down to the Three Sand Siblings for trying to challenge his team. Midare has been described as being both spiteful and selfish. He's cruel and uses his brain to judge situations.

 Appearance 
Midare was somewhat the second tallest of the three who also had, fair skin, had some type of dark black glasses or markings with separate dark blue lenses, no eyebrows, wore a pin striped light grey jumpsuit with a dark black side going down in the centre, an oxygen tank carried on the right side of his unseen pocket or foreleg, wore dark black sandals, wore light grey gloves, the same altered kasa hat that had the Amegakure symbol on the front of it, and had carried a dark black sheath on his back to carry his four umbrellas on his back. 

 Abilities 
Midare is a user of assassination techniques, one of the best in Ame, and is able to strike his enemies down hidden within the rainfall which hides using the sound of, allowing him to sneak behind his targets. With his cunning personality that results his mind being head and shoulders above others, Midare acts as his team's strategist.Naruto: One Decade, One Hundred Ninja, page 70

 Part I 
 Chūnin Exams 

Midare and his team had the misfortune of confronting the Three Sand Siblings during the second phase of the Chūnin Exams. Shigure sought Gaara's scroll and underestimated his power. Shigure attempted to use his Senbon Shower technique but Gaara's sand protected him. Gaara then took the opportunity to confine Shigure and his team using the Sand Binding Coffin. Gaara then crushed the Ame genin, killing them.

 In Other Media 
 Video Games 
In Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Online and Naruto Mobile, Midare is a constant rival of the main characters, much taller than in his manga and anime appearances, and using senbon.

 Trivia 
  means "disorder", "disturbance" or "unrest".