Title: Mimi Inuzuka
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Mimi_Inuzuka
-----------------------

is an Academy student and a member of the Inuzuka clan of Konohagakure.

 Personality 
Mimi is a somewhat reserved girl, not acting hastily. She is considerate of her class-mates, unwilling to deprive them of food as part of an exercise, being ok with having just a candy bar instead of a proper meal. As with all members of the Inuzuka clan, Mimi has a deep bond with her ninken, Kikuchiyo.

 Appearance 
Mimi is a fair-skinned young girl with the signature Inuzuka red markings on her cheeks and pronounced canine teeth. She has dark eyes and bushy orange hair that covers her ears and frames the sides of her faces with strands on the top that stick up and resemble dog ears. She dresses in a white, button-down shirt with blue tie, and black skirt held up by suspenders.

 New Era 
 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

Mimi attended the academy with some students of noteworthy lineage, including the daughter of a famous acting duo, the daughter of the Hokage, and a foreign princess. During class, she was asked by other students to do tricks with her dogs, which she declined. She was also present when the reporters interviewed Kae Yukiwari, and afterwards at class practice, where she admired Himawari Uzumaki and Eiki Fūma's shurikenjutsu skills.

When Team 7 taught her class, they put the students through an exercise to simulate fighting on an empty stomach. When she had a candy bar, being ok with others having her meal, Ehō Norimaki took it from her, saying that her choice was against the purpose of the exercise. Mimi's dog bit him. Soul disagreed with it, instead finding that lack of rules about eating something else was a hidden meaning they were supposed to find. Most of the class divided themselves along those lines, and boycotted class the next day. Their teacher Hana was able to mend the rift, and the following day, everyone took part in a picnic and cherry blossom viewing party.

Later, she was placed on a practice team with Konashi Nerikiri and Kande Inabikari as part of a series of competitions to improve team-work skills. When Himawari looked for Kae when she left the group, Mimi pointed Himawari in the direction she saw Kae leave.

When her class had to put on a play about the Sannin, Mimi was part of the group that helped Neon build the stage. When Eiki's struggle with Kawaki damaged the set, she joined in the repair effort.

The day of the festival, Mimi and Kura were in charge of a target booth with prizes for hitting targets with kunai. When shinobi quickly began winning all their prizes, they wondered if they should have barred shinobi from participating. When the festival received a terrorist threat, Mimi stayed inside.

Later, following Hana being hospitalised from the terrorist attack, Mimi joined her class in welcoming back their teacher. To make up for the festival being cancelled, Hana arranged for the class to undergo survival training on an uninhabited island. However, Kikuchiyo was injured and their food supplies vanished, stoking fear about a rumour of killer missing-nin settling on the island. Mimi tended to her ninken, and later informed Kawaki that the trap that injured her ninken was baited with his food, making Kikuchiyo the intended target. Everyone formed groups to scavenge food, and later to look for Neon's damaged drone. By night, everyone enjoyed their food.

Attracted by an explosion, the class encountered Kawaki and Himawari, who revealed that Hana, actually an assassin, had killed Kae. Himawari pointed out that her actions made more sense if Hana wanted to keep Kae as a hostage. Working together, the students tracked Kae and Hana to a cave. Finding the situation too dangerous for the students, Kawaki revealed himself as a shinobi, and credited them for helping find Kae. Eiki still believed there was something they could do, leading them to the docks, hoping to get word of the situation out. They came across Sai, who came to the island with Team 25 after discovering Hana's Land of Bamboo background. Upon finding Hana defeated, her teacher personality struggled against the assassin one, eventually prevailing with the encouragement of her students and regaining control. As Kae had to return home, the class finally put on the Sannin play, and later saw her off at the train station.

 Trivia 
  means "ear" or "ears".