Title: Minoji
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Minoji
-----------------------

is a genin from Konohagakure.

 Personality 
Minoji is a curious person. He also had no hope that he and his team could pass the second phase of the Chūnin Exams.

 Appearance 
Minoji has short, unkept dark hair held back by his forehead protector as well as two green lines running from each end of his eyes towards his ears. He wears a grey high-collared jacket suit along with a pair of grey pants.

 Part I 
 Chūnin Exams 

He and the rest of his team made it to the second phase of the Chūnin Exams. When they started to lose hope in completing the round, he and Shibire decided to read their scroll, leaving them knocked out and unable to complete the exams.

 Interlude 
 In Naruto's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths 

In the anime, about two years later, Minoji and his teammates partake in the joint Chūnin Exams held by Sunagakure and Konohagakure. For the first phase of the exams, he and his teammates are split into different rooms, with him being placed in room 2. After settling in, Shikamaru Nara as the first exam proctor explained that every member of the respective teams only needs to answer one single question on the test. However, their combined score with their teammates will determine if they pass or fail the exam, since they need exactly 100 points to pass — every higher or lower score leads to disqualification. Unclear how to solve the problem, Minoji heard the genin from room 1 calling their comrades, leading him to desperately scream their names as well.Naruto: Shippūden episode 396

Following the conclusion of the three question choice test, a bonus question was given by the proctor, asking to which teammate you would leave as a decoy, and the team's answer had to be unanimous. His team managed to qualify for the second round since they left the answer blank, proving to be the right choice since a full team is needed for the second round. However, a preliminary round had to be issued to lessen the many participants there were. The preliminary round involved a race to Suna where only the first 30 teams to arrive at the destination would qualify for the second phase.Naruto: Shippūden episode 397 Unfortunately, his team didn't make the cut and thus they were disqualified.Naruto: Shippūden episode 398

 Trivia 
 In the OVA Mission: Protect the Waterfall Village!, there is a Takigakure shinobi resembling Minoji shown.