Title: Misumi Tsurugi
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Misumi_Tsurugi
-----------------------

is an Otogakure shinobi who alongside his teammate Yoroi Akado, migrated to Konohagakure and disguised themselves as Konoha shinobi as a part of Team Kabuto.First Databook, page 78Naruto: One Decade, One Hundred Ninja, page 72

 Background 
Misumi was , officially migrating to Konoha with his teammate, Yoroi Akado; he disguised himself as a Konoha-nin to infiltrate the Chūnin Exams when he eventually was placed on Team Kabuto with his allies. He had achieved numerous outstanding results in espionage for his master Orochimaru.

 Personality 
Misumi appeared to be overconfident in his abilities and rather sadistic in nature. As shown first in his fight with Kankurō and later in his skirmish against Naruto and Ino he initially appeared confident but let his ego get the better of him. He was also not above using trickery and underhanded methods to achieve his goals.

 Appearance 

Misumi's appearance was greatly concealed by the mask he wore around his mouth that hung to around his neck and forehead protector which he wore like a bandanna. He also wore what appears to be the standard attire of his team consisting of a high-collared, sleeveless, purple shirt with a short-sleeved, white one underneath, a simple obi around his waist, purple pants, blue sandals and purple fingerless gloves, along with a pair of round-framed glasses. After defecting from Konohagakure, he wore a shirt with short sleeves, pants and sandals. It was also revealed that he had spiky black hair.

 Abilities 

To be more efficient in the gathering of information, he had received a Soft Physique Modification, a surgical procedure that allowed him to dislocate his joints to fit into any space. He then controlled his softened body with chakra, allowing him to stretch and twist any part of his body at any angle, elongating and even coiling around his opponent. In the anime, he was able to create water clones.

 Part I 
 Chūnin Exams 

Misumi and the rest of his team entered the Chūnin Exams to spy on their fellow participants for Orochimaru. During the second round where all the students should enter the Forest of Death, Misumi and Yoroi managed to pass by reaching the exam hall and reunite with Kabuto. Later they met with Orochimaru and told him the information they have got and were told to do as he says. During the preliminaries, he was matched against Kankurō. He quickly used his abilities to coil himself around Kankurō's body, trapping him in a stranglehold and threatening to break his neck if he didn't forfeit the match. Misumi made good on his threat when Kankurō refused, but it was soon revealed that what he had actually trapped was Kankurō's puppet disguised as him. Kankurō then made his puppet wrap its arms around Misumi's body and constrict him, breaking every bone in his body before Misumi was able to forfeit, thus winning the match. Misumi was last seen being taken to the medical infirmary for treatment.

 Kaima Capture Mission 

Though Misumi and Yoroi Akadō were not seen again in the manga, they appeared in the anime. They were research assistants and bodyguards to Orochimaru's former scientist, Amachi. He, like Yoroi, had taken off the cloth covering his lower face, and he wore a completely different outfit. During the events of this arc, Ino Yamanaka used her Mind Body Disturbance Technique to force him to tie his arms to pillars in one of the rooms of the labs, and left him there when it collapsed, possibly killing him. When Yoroi informed Amachi about his possible death, he didn't seem to care, noting that Misumi probably wasn't fully dedicated to fulfilling his goals anyway.

 In Other Media 
 Video Games 

 Trivia 
 "Tsurugi" is the name for a samurai's sword. With his former teammates, Kabuto ("helmet") and Yoroi ("armour"), they form an armour—helmet—sword trio.
 Given he only joined Konoha under false pretenses and was still technically an Oto-nin, it is unclear if he is truly a missing-nin in the manga.