Title: Misuno
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Misuno
-----------------------

is a kunoichi of Kirigakure and a personal aid to the Sixth Mizukage.

 Personality 
Misuno is very passionate in her desire to protect Kirigakure and likewise loyal in her duties to serving the Mizukage.

 Appearance 
Misuno is a tall woman with wavy brown hair that goes just past her shoulders. She wears pin-striped pants and a shirt under her green coat, as well as a blue forehead protector and calf-high boots. She also wears bandages over the bottom half of her face,Boruto: Naruto the Movie while in the anime, she wears a procedure mask.Boruto episode 24

 Abilities 
Misuno has been assigned with the task of guarding the Sixth Mizukage, implying she is highly skilled. She has an analytical mind, and has shown to be able to efficiently wield a tantō with great speed and precision.

 New Era 
Misuno escorted the Sixth Mizukage to the Kage Summit held in Konohagakure, where she listened to Sasuke Uchiha discussing intel about Kaguya Ōtsutsuki and the White Zetsu Army.Naruto chapter 700+5, page 9 Sometime later, Misumo attended another Kage Summit in Konoha.Naruto chapter 700, page 20

 Versus Momoshiki Arc 

After the Five Great Shinobi Countries organised to have a joint Chūnin Exam, Misuno escorted Chōjūrō to Konoha, where she guarded him while he watched the event.

 Shikamaru Shinden: A Cloud Dancing in Forlorn Falling Petals 

Misuno and Chōjūrō attended a Kage Summit in Konoha at the Hokage building, during which the Kage bickered about topics concerning Konoha, leading to Kurotsuchi demanding Konoha to disclose all of its confidential information as the village's proof to peace by the next summit, and said Iwagakure would leave the Five Great Shinobi Country alliance if they didn't. After the demand, the summit ended.

 Kawaki Arc 

When Team 7 found a mysterious boy with connections to Kara, Naruto called forth a Kage Summit, with Misuno joining Chōjūrō as his bodyguard. As talks about the boy's fate began, they unanimously decided to treat the boy with sympathy as they were no strangers to children being made into weapons (i.e. Jinchūriki). They also agreed for the boy to live with Naruto, who would watch over him at all times.

 Great Sea Battle of Kirigakure Arc 

Misuno accompanied Chōjūrō to the opening ceremony of the Shinonome 1 power station. After one of the airships crashes, Misuno asked Chōjūrō to return to his office, where he can better request for reinforcements. Later, she and Kagura updated each other on the events that happened on the ceremony and at the prison. When the Funato and Kirigakure fleets began fighting at sea, Misuno reported to Chōjūrō they remained on the defensive.

Later, Misuno reported to the Mizukage that Kagura Karatachi and Hebiichigo were killed in action protecting a village from a detached Funato unit on its way to a secret attack to Kirigakure. When they received word that Isari Funato wanted to negotiate, she remained wary. While Isari and Chōjūrō agreed to talk, Araumi made a broadcast, announcing an attack on Kirigakure, and unwavering commitment, even willing to attack his relatives if they opposed him. The Marlin Harpoon skewered Isari, killing him, and attempted to kill Chōjūrō, but was cut down by Misuno. Misuno later notified Chōjūrō that the main Funato forces meant to sail through the Sea of Death in order to attack the Shinonome 1. She carried out his orders to mobilise all ships that could get arrive in time to defend it.

As the Kirigakure forces gathered to protect the Shinonome 1, Team 7 arrived, returning Kagura's Hiramekarei. They voiced their desire to stop the war, hoping to reason with Ikada Funato, who was previously their friend. Misuno was outraged at the naivety, determined to make the Funato pay for all the harm they caused to the Land of Water. Chōjūrō calmed her down, understanding Team 7's desire for peace. He permitted them to make an effort to reason with Ikada, explaining to her that as Boruto was able to turn Kagura away from violence before, he might be able to achieve the same with Ikada. In the event of it failing, Misuno and Chōjūrō rallied the Kiri forces to prepare for war. As Team 7 approached the Funato ships, Misuno and Chōjūrō listened in through their ship's instruments.

Misuno wasn't surprised by their hostility and asked Chōjūrō what they should do, him telling her Team 7 still had more time. She was shocked when the Funato mobile fortress appeared, its Chakra Cannon charging a shot at the Shinonome 1. They were also shock by Boruto's offer to sacrifice himself to stop the war. Chōjūrō ordered Misuno to prepare for launching an attack. However, Boruto's commitment paid off, and Ikada ordered a withdrawal of the Funato forces. Chōjūrō admitted to Misuno that they allowed their anger for what happened to Kagura to distort his wish for peace, and also recalled their forces. In the aftermath, Misuno provided Chōjūrō with reports on the damages, as well as a request from the Water Daimyō for harsh punishment for the Funato ringleaders Araumi and Ikada. They discussed the lives lost, and how the quick modernisation of the country led them to the conflict. She later accompanied Chōjūrō as he informed Ikada of his surveillance sentence by Kajiki.

 Trivia 
 In the anime, Misuno's name was changed to  in the end credits. Similar to other Kiri shinobi, this name is a form of produce, in this case the tankan orange.