Title: Mitoku
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Mitoku
-----------------------

is the current head of the Konoha Cryptanalysis Team and oversees the day-to-day activities of the division, taking direct orders from the Hokage.

 Personality 
Though dutiful, Mitoku is also somewhat lackadaisical and is not used to staying late at the office. When Shikamaru Nara who was tasked by the Fifth Hokage to deliver Jiraiya's code told him that he might have to come back, the head told him to come to his house as he wouldn't be staying at the office.Naruto chapter 406, page 7

 Appearance 
Mitoku is a bespectacled man with dark eyes and black hair held in a high, short ponytail with a small goatee. He wears and orange-brown shirt with  dark-coloured pants, simple sandals and a white trench coat.

 Abilities 
Naturally, as the head of the Cryptanalysis Team, Mitoku is knowledgeable in all the codes used in Konoha as he was able to tell from a glance that the code Jiraiya had left behind did not conform to any known algorithms.Naruto chapter 406, page 5 Mitoku was also able to guide Shikamaru on the path to figuring out the code, telling him that he should speak to someone who knew Jiraiya personally to try and figure it out after analysing the situation under which Jiraiya had left the message.

 Part II 
 Pain's Assault 
When Shikamaru Nara went to the Cryptanalysis Team office to decode the message Jiraiya had left, Mitoku found it unusual that the Sannin's encrypted message did not correspond to any code in their he village. He then stated that given the circumstances that Jiraiya left the message under, it could not be anything very complex. He then told them to think of a person that he intended to leave the message for as they would be the best bet for decoding the message. With this, he told Shikamaru that if he needed to return, that he would find him at home, not as work. After Shikamaru left, Mitoku asked Shiho what she planned to do, as he intended to go home and to bed. Shiho responded that someone needed to stay at the office in case Shikamaru returned.

 Paradise Life on a Boat 

 In Other Media 
 Movies 
 Naruto the Movie: Blood Prison 
During Naruto Uzumaki's flashback to the members of the village when he was gathering natural energy to enter Sage Mode, Mitoku can been seen amongst the villagers.