Title: Mitsuki
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Mitsuki
-----------------------

is a synthetic human from Otogakure that was created as a partial clone of Orochimaru. Immigrating to Konohagakure to confirm whether or not Boruto Uzumaki was his personal "sun", he became a shinobi and was placed on Team Konohamaru.

 Background 
Using special technology, Mitsuki was created as a modified clone of Orochimaru,Boruto chapter 25, page 38-39 being cultivated from the same embryo as at least one older "Mitsuki", and raised in a test tube. Just like his "brother", Mitsuki was named after  and the sixth sign of the Chinese zodiac calendar, . In the event that Mitsuki would reveal any details about his creation, Orochimaru implanted a strong juinjutsu on his heart,Boruto episode 85 that would automatically activate, causing Mitsuki to self-destruct in order to conceal the secrets of Orochimaru's research.Boruto episode 73

left|
Orochimaru, as Mitsuki's "parent", wanted Mitsuki to find his independence, having concocted a complex plot for Mitsuki to do so. On Orochimaru's sixth attempt of the plan, each time erasing Mitsuki's memories of the previous, Mitsuki mastered Sage Transformation and decided to rebel against his "parent" and "older brother". He left their company and set out to forge his own destiny himself, now going by the name  by replacing the second character with . Upon discovering the existence of Boruto via a gift from Orochimaru, Mitsuki realised the truth, that Orochimaru wanted him to find his own path in life. Mitsuki then decided to go to Konoha and befriend Boruto to truly discover who he is.Naruto Gaiden: The Road Illuminated by the Full Moon The Seventh Hokage accepted Mitsuki without prejudice, and hid the child's background from the rest of the village, barring from his close friend and adviser and a few others; even the Konoha Council and the Fifth Hokage were not aware of this at the time.Boruto episode 72

 Personality 
Mitsuki has a very calm and matter-of-fact demeanour. He is generally seen very cheerful, if not indifferent, towards the situation at hand. While not confrontational, he freely speaks his mind in any situation, and does things at his own pace. He is also shown to have a sharp wit, being well-read and observant, showing advanced knowledge in mathematics and about the history of other villages. He's quite close with Boruto, caring about his opinion above that of most others. He is also shown to work well with Boruto in coordinated attacks. Seemingly stemming from his harsh upbringing with Orochimaru, Mitsuki is very vicious in battle, showing no restraint and willing to kill his foes without hesitation.Boruto episode 5 He is also very driven and committed when given a task, as when he was ordered to kill someone, he would not waver regardless of who it is.Boruto episode 13 During his time at the Academy, it doesn't seem as though he had much of a friendship with Sarada Uchiha until they were assigned to Team Konohamaru.

Despite not revealing much about his origins or parent to them, Mitsuki cares about his teammates, Boruto and Sarada, to the point where he never hesitates to rush to their side when they are in danger or in need of assistance. Mitsuki has a high opinion of Boruto as the son of the Seventh Hokage and the grandson of the Fourth Hokage. His attachment is such that he chose not to display his Sage Mode when its use could have helped him during the Chūnin Exams, fearing that he would not be able to stay in Konoha, and its exposure also being inconvenient for Orochimaru. His concern for his friends even exceeded his desire to stay in Konoha, as he was willing to reveal his Sage Mode to protect Boruto. His generally composed or cheerful personality aside, Mitsuki has great insecurities about the nature of his being. Wondering what it means to be human and to have one's own identity, he even has doubts about whether his choices are truly his own. Apparently wanting to better validate his existence, he greatly enjoys meeting and connecting with new people.

Mitsuki seems to admire Naruto and Sasuke Uchiha due to them both being high-ranked shinobi, and tells Boruto and Sarada how his parent told him their fathers are rivals who can fight equally. Mitsuki also holds a great deal of admiration for his parent as well as confidence in his abilities, to the point of being naive, as shown when he boasted to Boruto and Sarada that Orochimaru was even more powerful than both of their fathers. Despite choosing to walk his own path rather than what Orochimaru made for him (which is what he secretly wanted), Mitsuki has adapted some of Orochimaru's personality quirks, including taking samples of everything unique around him.

As noted by his fellow classmates, Mitsuki prefers spending his time in Boruto's company and often agrees and goes along with his ideas without complaint; though he will rarely point out faults with Boruto's plans. Mitsuki is also a minimalist, with his home having only necessities and a few pictures. When asked by Sarada, Mitsuki explained he had no interest in the Extreme: Shinobi Picture Scrolls card game, even though Boruto liked it; making it one of the few things they disagree on. Mitsuki considers buying trading cards a waste of money. While Mitsuki has trouble understanding animals even more than people, he adopts a stray cat he names Mikazuki. While friendly by nature and loyal to those close to him, Mitsuki has little understanding to the deeper feelings of love, finding such a sensation new and strange.

 Appearance 

Mitsuki has tousled white-blue hair, thin eyebrows, with golden eyes, and a pale complexion that he inherited from his parent. According to several of the girls in his class, he is very handsome. 

His attire consists of a loose-fitting two-toned light and dark blue kimono shirt with billowing, overlong sleeves, tied by a thick khaki-grey Ono-stylised belt, and a pair of navy pants. In addition to his outfit, he wears black long fingerless gloves and black calf-length shinobi sandals. Upon becoming a shinobi, Mitsuki starts wearing a black Konoha forehead protector on his head.

Three years after Boruto's leaving of Konoha, Mitsuki's hair grew longer and messier. He also began wearing dark overlong-sleeved robes closed left-over-right with high, light-coloured boots and two belts around his waist which connect to a light-coloured pouch.

 Abilities 
As a clone of Orochimaru, Mitsuki is an exceptionally talented shinobi, who Orochimaru noted possessed even greater power than the Sannin himself.Naruto Gaiden: The Road Illuminated by the Full Moon, page 34 In the Academy, he greatly excelled in both ninja and scholastic learning, and by his graduation exam, fought Shino Aburame into submission (albeit he only destroyed a marker to eliminate Shino).Boruto episode 36 He is regarded as having chūnin-level prowess,Boruto episode 141 as shown when he easily progressed to the finals of the Chūnin Exams.Boruto: Naruto the Movie Three years later, he becomes strong enough to briefly hold his own against the sentient God Tree, Ryū.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 20, pages 7-8

 Chakra and Physical Prowess 
Mitsuki has extremely high chakra levels for his age, enough to enable him to use Sage Mode. He is extremely quick and agile, able to avoid attacks and redirect them against the enemy. Very advanced in taijutsu, Mitsuki's fighting style is very fluid and graceful, able to seamlessly slip through his opponent's defences and strike with great flexibility. Akin to a snake, his specialty appears to be body holds and choke-outs. He was also able to hold his own against Suigetsu Hōzuki in a brief scuffle.

 Body Modifications 
As a synthetic clone of Orochimaru, Mitsuki was designed to be genetically perfect. He can heal from minor injuries within seconds with no lingering signs, regenerate lost limbs over time,Boruto episode 175 and does not require food or water for sustenance.Boruto episode 69 Mitsuki can morph his fingernails into claws, possesses infrared ray detection and can hear low-frequency waves.Boruto chapter 18, page 16 Mitsuki's body structure is exceptionally resilient, able to endure more damage than most. Also, his immune system can resist more infections as well as recover from those he cannot in short periods of time.Boruto episode 159 Mitsuki is able to communicate with animals, clearly understanding them and ask of their aid.Boruto episode 145

 Ninjutsu 

Mitsuki's signature ability is the Soft Physique Modification technique, able to stretch or contort his body for mobility and as versatile weapons. He can shatter barriers simply by touching them. As he was carrying a sword for a mission, it implies skill in kenjutsu. In the anime, he showed considerable cutting prowess, able to slice cleanly through a metal beam.Boruto episode 15 He is very stealthy, regularly sneaking up on his friends without them noticing.Boruto episode 7 He can also use sleight-of-hand tactics, concealing needles in his mouth to launch with considerable might.

Mitsuki can summon snakes, with which he can perform Hidden Shadow Snake Hands, as well as the Snake Clone Technique.Boruto: Naruto Next Generations, Volume 1's Mitsuki's Profile He can use them to detect movement from a distance,Boruto episode 41 record verbal messages to relay,Boruto episode 142 and upon teaching a snake a scents, it can track down targets.Boruto chapter 15, page 15 These snakes are venomous, capable of knocking out an Ōtsutsuki-cyborg like Kawaki in a single bite.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 6, page 21 He also excels in Medical Ninjutsu and curse techniques. 

Mitsuki is proficient in Wind and Lightning Release, able to create strong winds with the former as well as generate and discharge electricity with the latter. He is a skilled sensor, able to detect the enemies' presence throughout the area.Boruto episode 6 He is also able to effectively perform Cooperation Ninjutsu and Fūinjutsu, able to use both to restrict a person's movements and expand the might of this alongside fellow users.Boruto episode 37

 Senjutsu 

Mitsuki possesses the ability to use Sage Transformation, able to activate with ease.Boruto episode 58 Unique to him, he grows a single horn from his forehead and cyan chakra shroud.Artwork for the first Boruto volume The shroud forms ethereal chakra snakes around his body that add to his attack range as well as grab and bite targets. These chakra snakes are later shown to be strong enough to break through Ryū‘s Iron Sand,Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 20, pages 7-8 which was previously shown to easily subdue the full-powered Code.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 15, page 19 His speed increases tremendously, able to snatch a scroll and key from Orochimaru before he had realised it. Mitsuki can also use Sage Mode, which is noted to be a dangerous power when used in conjunction with Sage Transformation for too long. In the anime, prolonged use of the form causes Mitsuki's cells to breakdown, damaging his organs beyond repair, surgically requiring new ones while he is put on life-support.Boruto episode 167 Three years later, his body’s tolerance to Sage Mode has increased to the point he can fight for extended periods without major drawbacks.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapters 6-7

 New Era: Part I 
 Academy Entrance Arc 

After immigrating from the reconstructed Otogakure to Konoha, Mitsuki was allowed to transfer into Konoha's Academy as a sign of mutual trust between the villages. In the anime, keeping an eye on Boruto since arriving in the village, Mitsuki wondered how he could confirm if Boruto was the sun or not, during which he observed Shino Aburame's class handling Nue when it went on a rampage. Later, when an expelled Academy student that was possessed by Nue went on a rampage, Mitsuki subdued him, and in the process met Boruto, Shikadai Nara, and Iwabee Yuino. The next day, he joined Shino's class, where he took an interest in Boruto. During combat training against Iwabee, Mitsuki quickly showed himself superior, during which Boruto had to intervene in order for Iwabee to not get killed, prompting Mitsuki to apologise. Later that night, Mitsuki gave a report of his day to Otogakure via his snake.

The following day, Shino threw a welcome party for Mitsuki, during which Shino's bugs scared some of the students, leading to Mitsuki complying with Denki Kaminarimon's request to get rid of the bugs and blew them away using Wind Release. His actions lead to the party venue being destroyed. Afterwards, Mitsuki saved Boruto while he and other students were handling a possessed repairman who was on a rampage. The ordeal lead to Shino feeling guilty that his absence lead to his students being put in danger, resulting in Nue taking advantage of his sorrow and possessed him. The next morning, Shino had Mitsuki, Shikadai and Boruto met him for extracurricular lessons on the outskirts of the village. Proclaim he'll kill the troublemakers, the three were forced to retreat into a forest, where he suggested their only option was to kill their teacher. Shikadai convinced the two to instead take advantage of the Kikaichū's weakness to water to defeat Shino. As the other students distracted Shino, Mitsuki pulled him down into a river and electrocuted him, resulting in Shino being freed from his possession. Weak and unable to reach the surface, Boruto dived in after him, but found himself drowning to, leading to Shino rescuing the boys with his summoned Giant Insect.

After Boruto noted the chakra that possessed Magire Kakuremino took the form of a monster, Mitsuki relaid the information back to Otogakure, during which he questioned why only Boruto could see it. After making up absence notes for himself, Shikadai and Boruto, Mitsuki handed them to the Academy in order to skip class and spend all day searching for possessed villagers. As the notes were poorly written, the three were found out for their deception. The next day, Shino assigned his class to tail workplaces for work experience. Choosing the Konoha Central Post Office with the other two, the boys could remain searching for ghost incidents while delivering mail with Tayori Kuroyagi. After Sumire and her friends were injured during one of the incidents, Mitsuki and his classmates visited them at hospital, where the Seventh Hokage warned them of the potential danger they were investigating. Employing the help of other students in their investigation, the students lured the culprit of the incidents out, leading to Mitsuki chasing them into the sewers before letting them go. After the event, Mitsuki visited Sumire in hospital and had one of his snakes bind to Sumire, while he inquired about her health and her family.

Later, Mitsuki came over to Boruto's house and met his family. When Naruto had to leave for an emergency, Mitsuki comforted Boruto, and told him he suspected Sumire was behind the Ghost incident. Noticing Nue summoned in Senju Park, Boruto departs to the scene, while Mitsuki is contacted from Otogakure through his snake and tasked with eliminating Sumire. Catching up, Boruto proclaimed he'll save all the villagers without resorting to killing Sumire, before Mitsuki's clone retrained him in order to complete his mission. Tracking Sumire down using the snake he implanted on her earlier, Mitsuki managed to restrain Sumire and intended to kill her, but was distracted by Boruto who had defeated his clone, leading to her getting free. Set on completing his objective, Mitsuki resumed his fight with Sumire, which was interrupted by Boruto. Afterwards, Nue grabbed Sumire from a portal above them, leading to Boruto chasing after her, resulting in Mitsuki following before it closed. Rescuing Boruto from Nue from within the different dimension, Mitsuki stalled the beast while Boruto managed to restrain it. Intended to kill Nue, Mitsuki attacked it, but Sumire intervened and protected it. Continuing their fight, Boruto intercepted their attacks, and said he didn't believe she faked her experience at the Academy, a thought Mitsuki would never have considered. After Boruto changed Sumire's mindset, the three of them escaped back to Konoha before the dimension collapsed.

Several weeks after Sumire was apprehended, Shino decided to change up the three-man teams for their next challenge to determine the optimum pairings for graduation. Mitsuki insisted on staying on Boruto's team and also teamed-up with Lee. During their challenge to capture a flag, Mitsuki cut on of the construction beams to stop his opponents, allowing Boruto to get the flag. Shino was then called aside concerning Sumire. As the class began discussing rumours that Sumire was being transferred to a different school, they were relieved to see her return to their class.

 Sarada Uchiha Arc 

Upon Shino announcing graduations exams in a week, Mitsuki noted the day had finally arrived. At Lightning Burger, he ran into Chōchō Akimichi and Sarada at a restaurant and had a little chat with the girls, noting that questioning their identity and self-worth is common for girls their age and is commonly referred to as their "tragic heroine syndrome". Shortly after, Mitsuki joined Boruto in delivering his father's lunch for his trip, during which they ran into the girls from earlier and had Chōchō give Boruto and Sarada a minute to talk. Wondering if Mitsuki was about to confess his love, he replied that her symptoms were getting worse and that she needed professional help.

 School Trip Arc 

In the anime, during a field trip to Kirigakure, Shino's class was guided into the village by Kagura Karatachi. Their tour lead them to into popular tourist spots and meeting the Fifth and Sixth Mizukage. Afterwards, the class watched Boruto participate in a fight against Kagura at the Kirigakure Academy. When Denki Kaminarimon was captured by a group of delinquents who admired the "Bloody Mist Village" era, Mitsuki joined his classmates in rescuing him. Confronting Tsurushi Hachiya's gang, the students managed to rescue Denki and defeat the amateur shinobi. After the ordeal, the students played Shinobi Bout at their hotel with Kagura.

The next day, Mitsuki attempted to approach Suigetsu near the Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist sword vault, but he fled as Mitsuki arrived. Afterwards, Suigetsu approached Mitsuki in an alley, where he informed Mitsuki that Orochimaru didn't want him involved in the coup Shizuma Hoshigaki was in the process of beginning. Picking up that Suigetsu disliked Shizuma's group, he gave Mitsuki a scroll that contained information on Land of Water government officials in secret negotiations with the Land of Waves. After the officials confessed, Mitsuki learned from them that Shizuma secretly assassinated people who got in his way. Arriving to where Boruto was fighting Shizuma, he made the information public to everyone there. Following Boruto into battle, Mitsuki managed to slit Shizuma's throat, but it turned out to be a clone. Exhausted from having his chakra drained, Mitsuki watched Boruto and Kagura defeat Shizuma and end the coup before it began. Before roll call began, the pair along with Sarada and Iwabee managed to return to their hotel in time. 

After the field trip ended and in Konoha again, Mitsuki helped a distraught Boruto find a suitable replacement gift to make up for not remembering to get a Kirigakure souvenir for Himawari.

 Graduation Exams Arc 

In the anime, as ninja classes began preparing for the graduation exams, the various students were interviewed about their future goals alongside a parent. This also included Mitsuki being joined by Orochimaru, who discreetly snuck in to the village to not cause a commotion while talking to the Seventh Hokage. After the interview, Mitsuki talked with Orochimaru about his decision to stay in Konohagakure as a Konoha-nin so he could continue learning new things from being around Boruto, which Orochimaru accepted. In preparation for the Genin Exams, Shino hinted to his class to try stealing the written exams test answers, which Mitsuki and his friends did, leading to them all passing.

The next day, the students were set against Academy teachers and Kakashi Hatake during the 24-hour practical portion of the exams. While the teachers would still evaluate the students' respective improvements, their true test was against the Hokage. As the test began, Mitsuki and Boruto bypassed Konohamaru Sarutobi before encountering Shino. While Boruto went ahead to find Kakashi, Mitsuki used his Sage Mode to eliminate Shino. Afterwards, Mitsuki aided Iwabee in rescuing Boruto from Kakashi, which resulted in Mitsuki receiving an injury during the process. Strategising, Mitsuki, Iwabee and Denki temporally restrained Konohamaru, but he broke free, during which Denki managed to eliminated him. Regrouping with the remaing students, they all transformed into Boruto and attacked Kakashi. Repelled by the Hokage, the class got into position to restrain him in hopes Boruto could take his bell. Despite them not stealing the bell, Kakashi passed all the students as they succeeded at the test's true goal; loyalty and team-work. Mitsuki is placed on Team 3 alongside Boruto and Sarada, who initially wish to request a team change over not getting along with one another. After being shown the value of hard-earned cooperation, they agree to remain a team, and instead requested to have their designation be changed to Team 7, which Naruto granted.

 Genin Mission Arc 

Naruto presented Team 7 their first mission which involved aiding Green Banks against bandits. Upon arriving, the team learned that the bandits were actually ninja, resulting in Konohamaru questioning if they should continue the mission as it was probably too difficult for genin to face trained shinobi. While he discussed the matter with Kiri, the genin witnessed Ashimaru attacking the village, leading to Konohamaru forcing him to retreat. Kiri explained that the shinobi were attacking the village to pressure her into handing them the deed to the village's bridge. During the night, Team 7 noticed several villagers were being controlled by genjutsu before subduing them. Discovering Kiri was abducted during the incident, Team 7 met with the perpetrators to exchange the deed for her. After the exchange occurred, Hidari and Ashimaru decide on killing them all, prompting Konohamaru to task the genin in fleeing with Kiri. Pursued by Ashimaru, the genin engaged the missing-nin and defeated him by using Boruto Stream with Boruto on Sarada. Having completed the mission, the team returned to Konoha.

 Byakuya Gang Arc 

In the anime, after completing their mission involving apprehending an assailant at the Konoha Bank, the team discovered it had been robbed by the Byakuya Gang. After Sarada concluded it was done using Ice Release, the genin went to Katasuke Tōno for assistance. After he revealed that the thief planned to sell the goods, the three genin plotted to intercept the transaction and capture the thief. Approaching the theif, they try to apprehend him, but he managed to flee to a town, prompting them to follow. There, the thief justified his actions by revealing he had already sold the stolen jewels to repair the town's water wheel. As he fled, Sarada and Mitsuki began to chase him, but stopped when Boruto became conflicted on the issue.

In order to capture the Byakuya Gang, Team 7 was assigned alongside other genin teams to report and observe the thieves, and depending on the situation track them. After the thieves manipulated villagers into believing the Kaminarimon Company conducted corrupt practices, protesters gathered in front of the company's headquarters, leading to Kōtarō Fūma assigning the same teams to placate the gathering. Taking their position, Boruto noticed Team 10 abandoning their post and followed them, leaving Sarada and Mitsuki by themselves. After it was discovered genjutsu was discovered to be fulling the protests, shonobi freed villagers from being manipulated, before Naruto made a speech and quelled the situation.

 Versus Momoshiki Arc 

left|
In the anime, sometime after attending Boruto's birthday party with Sarada, Team 7 was assigned to apprehend four train robbers that were assumed to be hiding out in Mountains' Graveyard abandoned mine. Upon arriving, they learn one of the robbers turned himself in, after he told them his peer were killed by a white monster. Investigating, the team entered the mine, and soon were attacked by a White Zetsu. Forcing it to retreat, Konohamaru wanted the three genin to leave the mine while he confronted the Zetsu, but Sarada convinced him to let them accompany him. Following Konohamaru's strategy, the team managed to kill the White Zetsu. Going further into the Ōtsutsuki clan ruins to investigate, they discovered Sasuke Uchiha had killed the remaining White Zetsu before they entered. When Konoha shinobi arrived after reporting the situation, the three genin were left out on discussing intel.

After Mitsuki's team completes their mission of capturing a giant panda and reports their success to Naruto, Mitsuki and Sarada met up with Boruto to persuade him into taking the Chūnin Exams, which Sarada succeeded in doing. Entering the Chūnin Exams with his teammates, the first round of the exams involved a true or false quiz regarding a question about the fifth volume of a novel series. Standing in position to signify their answer, the floor beneath them unexpectedly gave way, leading to all the genin dropping. Mitsuki stretched his limbs to stop Boruto falling into the ink below, resulting in their team passing. Progressing to the second portion of the exams, they are pitted against a Kirigakure genin team in a game of capture the flag. When Boruto is attacked by the team, Mitsuki decided to go and assist him. By the time he arrives, Boruto had already defeated the three. After Sarada captured the enemy flag, they qualify for the finals. Afterwards, he tells Boruto he could really become Hokage one day.

On the day of the third round of the exams, the event was structured as a one verse one tournament, leading to Mitsuki being pitted against Toroi. After his match began, Mitsuki was able to effortlessly defeat him. While in the manga the tournament was stopped before he could fight Sarada in the semi-finals, in the anime, Mitsuki participated in his semi-final match against Shinki instead. During their match, Mitsuki was able to hold his own against his opponent until Shinki pressured Mitsuki into relying on using Sage Transformation. Abiding by Orochimaru's request of not revealing his true skill publicly during the tournament, Mitsuki forfeited the match, deciding that continuing to live in Konoha was more important to him than victory. Watching Boruto win the final match against Sarada and Shinki, Mitsuki looked on with neutral curiosity as to how Boruto would respond to being disqualified for cheating.

Straight after, Momoshiki and Kinshiki Ōtsutsuki attacked the venue in search for Naruto, leading to Mitsuki helping evacuate children from the area. In the anime, deciding on abandoning his promise, Mitsuki activated Sage Mode to assist Boruto, but was attacked before doing so by Urashiki Ōtsutsuki, who stole a portion of Mitsuki's chakra which rendered him unconscious, during which Naruto shielded him from Momoshiki's final assault on the venue. After Naruto was captured by the pair, Mitsuki alongside Sarada and Sakura Uchiha watched Boruto leave the village with the four Kage to rescue him. Before leaving, Boruto asked Mitsuki and Sarada to take care of the village while he was gone. In the anime, Mitsuki was rendered in a coma from Kinshiki's attack, left in Shizune's care while the rescue for Naruto happened. A few days later, after they succeeded, Mitsuki secretly met with Orochimaru, who reminded him how dangerous it is for him to use his Sage power in front of others, which Mitsuki disregard on the premise that it was necessary to help Boruto, who had become his shining sun. Accepting this, Orochimaru left, requesting that Mitsuki come home on occasion so he could personally see his son's growth. Mitsuki later joined his teammates on a mission to catch the same panda that was running loose within Konoha.

 Sasuke Shinden: The Teacher's Star Pupil 

Mitsuki appears in this novel.

 Chōchō Arc 

In the anime, Mitsuki brought Orochimaru a scroll for him to sign so he could partake in an upcoming mission. Before which, they had a sparring session. While Orochimaru decisively won, he applauded Mitsuki's improvement. When Mitsuki asked if he should refer to Orochimaru as his father or mother, Orochimaru said it was irrelevant as he has been all kinds of entities over the years and all that matters is one's core. Later, when the lead actors of a popular TV drama, Tomaru and Ashina received a death threat if they continued filming their show, Team 7 was assigned to protect the actors alongside Team 10. Mitsuki and his team were assigned to watch Ashina, who much to their chagrin was a prima donna who basically made the team act as her personal servants.

Later, a masked attacker managed to capture Tomaru. A ransom was left that demanded 20 million ryō and for Ashina to be the one to deliver it. As Chōchō's friends continued telling her to stop focusing on how she looks as her continued usage of Butterfly Mode was weakening, Chōchō ignored their request. Ultimately, Mitsuki talked to her through her love of potato chips, noting that what matters is not the outside appearance, but the quality. During the exchange, as Konohamaru already captured the attacker and disguised himself as the Ame-nin, Ashina was revealed to be the mastermind behind the assaults as she desperately wanted to rekindle her fame as an actress. In a last blind effort to keep her fame by burying the truth, she attempted to blow up the area. While Konohomaru stopped her from using them, the explosive tags went off, causing a landslide. As Tomaru was in danger of be crushed, Chōchō dropped her Butterfly Mode and saved him. Thanking Mitsuki for helping her find herself, she gave him her potato chips. Later, Mitsuki shared them with Orochimaru, who was intrigued by the slight change in Mitsuki's nature. While he brought up Mitsuki's previous question about Orochimaru's parental status, Mitsuki said it didn't matter now as he understood Orochimaru's previous statement.

 Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc 

In the anime, a Kage Summit in Konoha was convened, leading to Team 7 being issued guard duty. Mitsuki began reflecting on his first ever dream the previous night, being a memory from when he first decided to find his own path. From this, Mitsuki began wondering how one can determine if their will is truly their own or simply a manipulation of others. Changing topics, Boruto told his team-mates about a riddle Naruto asked him recently, asking what is the hardest stone there is. While trying to figure out the answer, they noticed that there was search party for Ōnoki who wondered off. Thinking that he could answer the riddle, the genin decided to look for the legendary elder. They soon found him but while they tried to return him to the meeting, Ōnoki refused. When Boruto asked Ōnoki the riddle, Ōnoki offered to answer the question if they take him on a tour of the village, which they agreed. Afterwards, Ōnoki gave them their answer, that it is the core of one's being, that they must keep their core strong to endure all obstacles. Adding to this, Ōnoki noted that Mitsuki's will was very unsteady.

With their mission completed, Mitsuki returned home, where he found a letter from a group of Iwagakure shinobi, prompting him to burn it. Leaving the village's borders at dawn the next day, he met with Sekiei, Kokuyō and Kirara, to see if he could learn the secret of one's will from Kū, the group's leader. Their meeting was noticed by Saō and Uō, whom the group attacked. Before the foreigners could kill the Konoha shinobi, Mitsuki attacked Uō, and had his snake bite the shinobi in order temporally stop his heartbeat, fooling Kokuyō into thinking the guard was dead. Departing with the group towards the Land of Earth, they encountered Konoha pursuers, which Kokuyō and his Akuta dealt with while Mitsuki and Sekiei ventured on. Learning that two shinobi made it past Kokuyō, Sekiei has two Akuta guard him while he left to engage them. Following him, Mitsuki saved Sekiei from Boruto, before assaulting his teammate and leaving.

Later, as Sekiei's body began breaking down again, Kokuyō left Mitsuki to look over Sekiei while he ventured for help. While alone with him Sekiei suddenly ensnared Mitsuki with one of his clay insects, and revealed he was aware that Mitsuki had saved Uō. Accepting that Mitsuki had no ulterior motive besides learning who he really is, the two were joined by Kokuyō's comrades, prompting Sekiei to vouch for Mitsuki's trustworthiness.

Once arriving at Kū's headquarters, Mitsuki was shown around, including his personal room and Sekiei's, which showed lots of drawing his made of people he cared about. Mitsuki was brought to a scientist for analysis on Mitsuki's unique body. During examination, they found a Cursed Seal embedded on his heart. Later, once finally meeting with Kū, he asked about the essence of free will. Kū however noted that he can't truly answer that himself as an artificial human like Mitsuki and that Orochimaru, as Mitsuki's creator, was the best chance of him getting a straight answer. He did however note that Mitsuki betraying Konohagakure, an act of rebellion, is common among humans as a sign of maturing. He went on to insist that the unique nature of Mitsuki's being would be instrumental in completing the Third Tsuchikage's plans to ensure lasting peace through the Akuta.

left|
Later, Mitsuki found that a masked Konohamaru had found the base and infiltrated it. Konohamaru unmasked himself and gave Mitsuki a chance to explain himself. Mitsuki apologised for the trouble he caused everyone and promised to answer for his actions, but insisted he had to finish with he believed was the right thing to do. Konohamaru decided to trust him, reminding him that he would always be a member of Team 7. Soon after, Mitsuki brought a transplant heart to Kū. Sarada and Boruto caught up with them, and Mitsuki launched an attack to keep them at bay. As Kū celebrated receiving his heart, Mitsuki attacked him from behind, revealing the heart to be disguised snakes. Mitsuki explained his deception of the fabrication to those present, and was comforted by Boruto's promise to listen what he had to say when they returned home. Team 7 prepared to confront the remaining fabrications.

As Kū retreated to treat his wounds and decaying body, Boruto and Sarada followed him while Sekiei stayed to face Mitsuki. He voiced his contempt at Mitsuki for the betrayal, feeling so foolish for believing Mitsuki's lies and false friendship, attacking relentless even as his body began to give out. Mitsuki however insisted that he did come to view him as a friend, wanting to stop him from destroying himself, both from overexertion and going down a dark path. As Mitsuki continued to fight defensively, Sekiei finally collapsed. Mitsuki decided to console him, offering to take Sekiei to Orochimaru for modifications to save his life. Seeing that Mitsuki's intentions were true, Sekiei conceded defeat and voiced his simple wishes of connecting with others, regretting that he couldn't have the life Mitsuki had despite being an artificial human as well. Sekiei died attempting to fist bump Mitsuki. Mitsuki regrouped with his team at the Old City, where they were confronted by Kū, who had recently transplanted a human heart into himself to stabilise his body.

As Kū began pressuring the genin with his renewed power, Mitsuki unleashed his Sage Mode to push the fabrication back. Kū questioned Mitsuki on why he would betray the fabrications when they could relate him as fellow artificial beings. Boruto and Sarada insisted that it is because they are his friends. Mitsuki however reluctantly admitted he considered joining the enemies for real. They were then approached by Ōnoki, who tried to reason again on how far Kū strayed from his original path. Ignoring his words, Kū attacked the group with his Dust Release. Sarada saved everyone by breaking through the ground. As Kū caught up to finish the battle, the combined effort of Team 7 managed to seriously damage Kū. Kū attempted a final Dust Release on the group, only for Ōnoki to counter it with a much stronger one, determined to not face his late grandson again without atoning. Ōnoki ultimately destroyed Kū. Afterwards, the genin approached the drained Tsuchikage, who spoke to them about the importance of keeping one's will strong before collapsing. Team 7 was then found by their allies from Konohagakure and they welcomed Mitsuki back.

After returning home, Mitsuki was detained by Konohamaru and Sai to be debriefed on his recent actions. Ultimately, it was decided to pardon Mitsuki on the grounds that his actions were not treacherous and actually helped Iwagakure. However, he was still punished by having his shinobi status revoked. Later, as Mitsuki made a crude shrine in memory of his Fabrication friends, he was approached by Boruto and Sarada, who also had their respective shinobi status revoked. Mitsuki apologised for his recent actions and admitted to the shameless curiosity of wanting to connect with people more like him. Boruto however quickly accepted his apology and admitted he was glad that he got the chance to better understand Mitsuki as a person, hoping to learn more about each other, much to Mitsuki's delight. Later, due to Kurotsuchi's gratitude and recommendation, it was decided to restore the Team 7 genin's shinobi status.

 Jūgo Arc 

In the anime, some time later, Team 7 and Team 15 were led by Konohamaru, Hanabi having had another assignment. They were assigned to investigate the random attacks on village from its nearby wildlife. Tosaka, an ornithologist, was appointed to lend assistance with the birds. Upon arriving, the group was attacked by strange-looking birds. At the village, they learned that many people attacked by the mutated birds quickly became sick and were covered in Cursed Seals. The villagers also found an unconscious Jūgo, who Mitsuki and Sarada recognised. He questioned him until one of the sick villagers when on a rampage. Jūgo subdued him, causing the villager's Cursed Seal to disappear, and retreated into the forest, and warned people to stay away. Konohamaru speculated that Orochimaru was involved in this and split the team up to investigate, pairing himself with Mitsuki.

Mitsuki and Konohamaru arrived just in time to protect Boruto from Jūgo's attack. When Jūgo shrugged off Sarada's explosive tag kunai and counterattacked, Mitsuki pulled her out of the way. After Konohamaru snapped Jūgo out of his blood-lust, Mitsuki and the others followed him, finding him passed out with an injection device near him. They were attacked by another bird, but Jūgo woke up and cured the bird from its cursed seal before leaving. Back the village, Mitsuki confirmed the injection device is from Orochimaru's research, and speculated it was a drug to suppress the cursed seal. Mitsuki was among those tasked with monitoring Jūgo and looking out for more of the tranquilliser. They observed Jūgo struggling to keep in transformation in check after curing more birds, and he relented in letting them help after the episode. They came across Land of Rivers researchers looking into the bird attacks, lied about having no information to share. After Boruto helped Jūgo with another episode, the group discussed the lack of progress in their investigation, while being spied on by one of the Land of Rivers researchers.

Over the next couple days, the group continued to work on the birds. At Sarada's suggestion, Jūgo began taking his medication regularly to avoid his transformations, but commented he was beginning to develop an immunity. On the third day, they woke up to find the still infected birds were gone, Tosaka claiming they transformed and escaped, which Jūgo having gone after them. They found Jūgo struggling to contain a transformation, and discovered his remaining shots had disappeared. Jūgo went on a rampage at the village, but the Land of Rivers researchers subdued him with tranquillisers before he could hurt anyone. They revealed the Konoha shinobi knew of Jūgo's identity as the rampaging monster, turning the villagers against them. When they mentioned having requested backup, the researchers revealed Wasabi and Namida, unconscious and infected with cursed seals.

After the genin reluctantly left the village while Tosaka was allowed to remain to help in the investigation, they found Sumire after she was knocked out by Suigetsu. Suigetsu insisted that Nue attacked them first and only acted in self-defence. When learning that the Oto-nin were looking for Jūgo, who left the base without permission, the genin explained that Jūgo was apprehended by the Land of Rivers' researchers. When Sumire awoke, she explained that two assailants who captured Wasabi Izuno and Namida Suzumeno had special collars that let them harness cursed seals of their own. Realising that this duo was working with the Land of Rivers' researchers, they concluding that the outbreak must have been started by them. While Suigetsu insisted on just assaulting the enemies and taking Jūgo back by force, Karin reminded him that such reckless actions could reflect negatively on Orochimaru's already-dubious truce with the world. 

Mitsuki rescued Konohamaru before the head researcher could assassinate him. After Konohamaru recovered somewhat, Mitsuki wanted to regroup with Boruto, but Konohamaru decided against it, instead focusing on finding something to stop the cursed seal infection on the enemy's boat. They found a serum that removes the cursed seal and made their way to the lake, finding Suigetsu along the way. Mitsuki stopped Sarada from killing the birds, and gave the serum to Suigetsu, who ingested it and merged with the lake, using the water to rain the serum over the birds, curing them. Konohamaru intended to take Tosaka back to Konoha and have him confess his role in the outbreak, but Mitsuki informed him Karin and Suigetsu had taken him with them when they left.

Sometime later, in a mission to capture the infamous jewel thief, Nezumi Kaitō, Team 7 found a stray kitten that was shivering from the cold. They decided to have Mitsuki care for it. He soon grew attached to the kitten and named it Mikazuki, deciding to keep it. Later, as recent memories about Ōnoki began flashing through his mind as dreams, he decided to visit Orochimaru for help. The Sannin scanned his son's mind to research the memories and came to a conclusion. He explained the boy that he has grown much since choosing to move to Konohagakure, but has also suffered much personal loss. He gave Mitsuki a choice to continue enduring these painful memories or have his mind reset to before he ever even knew about Boruto. Mitsuki decided to keep his memories and move ahead, impressing Orochimaru.

 Time Slip Arc 

In the anime, Mitsuki joined the other genin in testing out new surveillance equipment designed to follow their location. During the field test, Urashiki Ōtsutsuki was spotted in the area, where Mitsuki joined several other Konoha-nin in pursuing him. However, this turned out to be division by the alien, who placed a genjutsu on them to let him sneak into the village.

Some time later, after Urashiki was finally defeated, Sumire decided to resigned from her genin team to join the Scientific Ninja Weapons Team. From this, Mitsuki joined his friends in a farewell party for the former class rep. They also met Sumire's replacement for Team 15, Tsubaki Kurogane a samurai student from the Land of Iron. Some time later, Mitsuki helped Boruto in finding a gift for his grandfather, Hiashi Hyūga.

 Mujina Bandits Arc 

In the anime, Mitsuki was assigned an undercover mission at Hōzuki Castle, to protect Kokuri, a defector who stole money from the Mujina Bandits from another recently incarcerated member, Tsukiyo, in exchange for information on their dealings and leadership, if his information is accurate. Mitsuki claimed to be thieves from the Land of Water. The warden Mujō, who was in league with Konohagakure's mission, was able to apply a fake branding to them to give them an edge. Inmate Arai showed them around and informed him of events inside the prison, including what it took to get sent to the medical ward, where Kokuri was being held. With Mitsuki's help, Boruto acquired a poisonous fruit and ate it to get himself admitted to the medical ward. 

Upon Boruto's return and contact with Kokuri, they learned that Kokuri was attacked by a fellow prisoner, despite the high security of the medical ward. Mitsuki contacted Sarada to have the warden move Kokuri to their cell for better protection. After succeeding, they learned that one of the prison's special access cards was missing for three days. As the guards began looking for it, Mitsuki realised that the card must have been stolen by one of their original cell-mates when Boruto was being taken to the medical ward. Ultimately, they exposed Arai as the assailant, returning the card to the guards and turning Arai in to avoid punishment themselves.

Later, Mojū suddenly fell ill and was rushed to the medical wing. Unable to continue his duties, full authority of the prison was given to Benga, whose first decision was to have Kokuri transferred to Hōzoki Castle #2. When they learned the second site housed several Mujina Bandits, they decided that Kokuri would have to be broken out before the transfer happened.

They learned of a supply ship that regularly comes to the prison. Also, knowing they would require a great deal of water to counter the seal on Kokuri, Team 7 sabotaged the water line, knowing it would force the guards to use a backup line that they could gather water from. After finishing their plans, they noticed that Kedama was watching them. Mitsuki detained and interrogated him, learning the truth about Kedama's reputation as a snitch being fabricated by Benga. As Mitsuki decided to reveal that he was in fact a ninja on an undercover mission tasked with breaking out Kokuri, Kedama took no interest, promising he wouldn't say anything as he vowed to never get involve with other people's affairs again. Mitsuki however noted that Kedama only did this out of fear of letting people get close to him again. 

As the night drew closer and there was no sign from Sarada about her part of the mission, the group grew concerned. Boruto was determined to trust Sarada and move forward with the plan, which Mitsuki happily agreed to. Mitsuki used snakes as scouts to avoid the guards, leading the way. On their way to the water tank, they were attacked by Benga's summon, which Mitsuki was able to defeat by collapsing the ceiling on it. However, the old water tank had been drained by Benga. They carried on to avoid the summon, but it and Benga caught up with them. Sarada saved them by breaking the ground, allowing the spring tide to deactivate Kokuri's Heavenly Prison and wash Benga and his summon away. On the outside, the group was attacked by the Mujina's second-in-command Tsukiyo, who was released as a last-ditch effort by Benga.

Using his array of shadow-manipulation techniques, he was able to pressure the genin. As the Konoha-nin began to tire, Kokuri saw through the enemy technique's weakness to light, giving the Konoha-nin the knowledge they needed to overpower and defeat their foe. In a last ditch effort, Tsukiyo grabbed Kokuri and dragged the man with him off the ledge and into the ocean. Kokuri then emerged, claiming that Tsukiyo drowned. Soon after, Sai and a group of Konoha-nin appeared, having been mobilised by Naruto after losing contact with Mujō for so long. With Benga being killed by Tsukiyo and Mujō having recently recovered to resume his duties, Team 7's mission was completed, taking Kokuri with them to the village and verify his intel on the Mujina Bandits before releasing him.

Several months later, while Team 7 was on a mission to capture the Mujina Bandits, Mitsuki ended up capturing and tying up one of the bandits to a tree. A few days later, Mitsuki's team was surprised to be presented with their first B-rank mission. While Sarada and Boruto were intimidated at first, Mitsuki noted that the Fifth Kazekage was known for doing B-rank missions while a genin himself, quickly exciting his team-mates. On the day of the mission, when Boruto abandoned the mission for personal reasons, Sarada had Mitsuki track their teammate down to help. They arrived into time to save the paralysed Boruto from Shojoji, quickly subduing and defeating the bandit. Later, while applauded for saving Tentō and capturing the Mujina Bandits, Konohamaru also said they would have to be punished for abandoning their official mission.

 Kara Actuation Arc 

In the anime, as Mitsuki's team was assigned to work with Mugino to find Anato a missing researched in the Land of Valleys. After meeting the man's wife and learning about the village's large medical company, Mitsuki was able to sneak the last known location of Anato's team. There, they were intercepted by Victor, the company's president, and his guards. As he was also looking for Anato's team, and found many of them were dead, it was decided to join efforts. They soon found a cave. Inside, the found Anato, whose body was altered into a malleable state and mindlessly attacked them.

Mitsuki tried to restrain Anato with his snakes poisoning him, but the effort failed. Soon after, Victor and his crew appeared and subdued him with a relentless barrage of Lightning Release. Victor promised they would return Anato to the village for treatment. With their mission technically completed, the Konoha-nin decided to return to the Konohagakure. Along the way, Mitsuki became ill and his body was taking on the same properties as Anato. Mugino brought them to Yubina, a former medical-nin. After Mitsuki was treated, Yubina determined that during the fight with Anato, Mitsuki was infected by some of the First Hokage's cellular structure. Yubina also revealed that a young girl was also infected, and rumors that the black market was harvesting the late Hokage's cells for sale. They decided the team would go the source in the Land of Silence. However, Mitsuki would stay behind to recover and help Yubina in designing a cure to the outbreak as his immune system has shown such properties. Mitsuki's antibodies proved able to save the infected girl, and a sample that Yubina provided to Konohamaru, who intended to have it analysed in Konohagure, ended being used during their investigation.

After Mitsuki and the girl, Kona, fully recovered, the girl decided to help Mitsuki sneak into the main city through an underground network that the children of the city used for their own society. At the base, Mitsuki met up with is team, who were helped by Kona's brother, Katara, after they were framed for murdering Lady Sakuya so the real killers to safely escape with the Hashirama Cell. The children's network were able to quickly find the true killers. Once outside the country's borders, the genin from Mugino and Konohamaru to find their targets, only to be attacked by a new enemy.

The attackers were revealed to be Kumo-nin, consisting of Omoi, Kakui, and Marui. Having heard rumours that Konoha-nin killed Lady Sakuya and stole the Hashirama Cell, they interrogated the genin. Mugino and Konohamaru quickly returned and helped clear things up. After explaining the situation, the group worked together to hunt down the true culprits, who were deduced to be shinobi from the Land of Haze. Along the way, they were intercepted by Deepa, who was also looking for the Hashirama Cell. Omoi's team decided to face the new threat while the Konoha-nin moved on. Soon after, Mugino and his team was intercepted by one of the thieves, Yūga, who was determined to complete his mission of delivering the Hashirama Cell to his land at all cost.

He unleashed a self-sacrificing technique to ensnare the Konoha-nin in a barrier and summon a destructive demon. The genin tried to hold off the demon while Mugino and Konohamaru attempted to destroy the barrier, but were quickly stopped by it. Changing tactics, Mugino restrained the demon, letting it absorb his chakra long enough for his team to destroy it. Later, after Mugino recovered enough, the team resumed tracking the Haze-nin.

Upon catching up with the remaining foes, the Konoha-nin were tricked and caught by Hiruga's self-sacrificing technique that produced a restraining sludge. As it became clear that the technique would drag all near him underground, Omoi arrived. Battered, he revealed that Deepa killed his allies and was on his way to the Land of Haze to get the Hashirama Cell. Worrying for his remaining brother, Hiruga cancelled his technique and rushed off. While Omoi could not join his allies, he warned them that Deepa was seemingly impervious to all forms of attack.

Upon catching up to Hiruga's older brother, Asaka, it took some convincing that Hiruga was truly him and that there was a new threat. Before a truce could be agreed upon, Deepa arrived and swiftly struck down the remaining quadruplets. Boruto was furious and attacked the man, only for his kunai to harmlessly bounce off Deepa's body. The man explained that he is able to manipulate all the carbon is around him, including in his own body to become invulnerable. Victor arrived, and revealed to be allied with Deepa. Victor split up the jōnin from the genin in the team, where Mitsuki and his team-mates faced Deepa. Between Deepa's relentless barrage of carbon projectiles and his impervious body, the genin were quickly overwhelmed. As Boruto and Sarada were knocked out, Mitsuki revealed his Sage Mode Transformation to save his friends and escape, determined to save them even at the expense of his body giving out from the strain of heightened state.

After getting the badly injured Boruto and Sarada to Yubina for care, Konohamaru and Mugino took Mitsuki to Orochimaru as he was the only one who could treat Mitsuki's body. Mitsuki's body was strained to the point of deterioration, requiring several new organs to recover. After Mitsuki regained consciousness, Orochimaru asked the boy if it was really worth risking his own death to save his allies, wanting to see Mitsuki's resolve.

As Mitsuki's replacement organs were almost viable, Suigetsu returned with news of Mitsuki's team. He revealed they all returned the Land of Valleys. This concerned Mitsuki, who was determined to help his team despite his still unstable state, forcing Log to sedate him.

Ultimately, instead of waiting for the replacement organs, Log donated his own to let Mitsuki return to action. He joined his father in time to save Mugino from an Outer of Kara. As Victor's recreated God Tree continued growing out of control, Mitsuki joined his friends to battle Deepa again. Despite his team-mates improved skills, Deepa's carbon powers still proved as seemingly invincible. Ultimately, the three genin combined their chakra into a Super Compression Rasengan, overpowering Deepa and finally defeating him. After Orochimaru destroyed the mock-God Tree, Team 7 cheered their victory.

Back in the village, Mitsuki and his friends found Denki setting up an experiment to improve radio communications. Mitsuki and the others decided to help him with the work. It ultimately worked, but failed to maintain stability. Denki however remained determined to improve the technology. Mitsuki joined everyone in cheering.

 Ao Arc 

In the anime, Mitsuki attended the memorial service for the fallen people of the Fourth Shinobi World War. Later, after watching Naruto test out Katasuke's new Scientific Ninja Tool against Boruto at the Training Hall, the Hokage assigned Team Konohamaru's genin to escort Katasuke and the new tool to Ryūben City, followed by testing our their technology. Riding on a Thunder Train, the group sat with an acquaintance of Katasuke, Ao, for the duration of the trip. Arriving at the research institute, they are surprised to see Sumire working there. Having completed the escort, the genin began testing out the facilities Scientific Ninja Tools. Soon afterwards, they are contacted by Naruto who informs them that he's lost contact with Konohamaru and Mugino while they were on a mission near their location, leading to him suspending their current mission in order to search for the two.

Preparing to depart, Katasuke's decided to join them in his prototype battle armour, and Akita Inuzuka has her ninken Chamaru aid them. Arriving at their sensei's last known location, they discovered puppets in front of a crashed blimp. Upon Katasuke setting eyes on a container on the blimp, the puppets activate, leading to the genin attacking the weapons. Grouping up and becoming pinned by the puppets attacks, Katasuke utilises his suit to absorb their attacks long enough until they overheat. Having disconnected them while they all were immobilised, the four follow Chamaru to Konohamaru's location. Before they could talk about what happened with Konohamaru, they were confronted by Ao, who held a machine gun at them, questioning them on what they learned inside the blimp.

Taking cover from Ao's barrage of bullets, Mitsuki watched on as Ao stole Katasuke's Jutsu absorption device and subdued everyone who challenged him. When Mugino attempted to collapse the cave in on himself and Ao, Konohamaru had his team retreat after Ao survived the attack. Taking shelter, Katasuke revealed to the team that he had leaked intel on Scientific Ninja Tools to the enemy during the period of time he was being controlled. Konohamaru insisted that they had to return the data he found on the blimp to Konohagakure, leading to Boruto persuading him into fighting Ao again in order to stop him from abusing Katasuke's technology. Afterwards, Team Konohamaru devised a plan to face Ao and counter his jutsu-absorption tool.

Afterwards, the team began their plan, with Mitsuki taking cover in a bush. Noticing Mitsuki, Ao fired a bullet at him, leading Mitsuki to dodge and attack him with Purple Electricity, which Ao absorbed before kicking him away. As Sarada and Konohamaru began firing element attacks at Ao, Mitsuki did the same, giving Boruto the opportunity to attack Ao. Pretending to drop his Chakra Blade, Boruto manipulated Ao into using it, during which Mitsuki wrapped his arm around Ao's fist, making him unable to drop the blade. Doing so resulted in Ao having his chakra drained, until he forced Mitsuki to let go of him by attacking his arm. Facing Ao's Mirror Drones, Mitsuki took Katasuke to cover, followed by rescuing Sarada from their attacks. After Konohamaru regained consciousness, Mitsuki informed him that Ao was defeated.

In the aftermath, an assailant summoned a toad above of Ao and Boruto, which crushed the former to death. Introducing himself as Koji Kashin, he caught the team in fūinjutsu, during which Konohamaru frees himself and faced the opponent alone. Watching the fight, Koji managed to engulf Konohamaru in flames, which triggered Boruto's Kāma to activate. Absorbing Koji's techniques, the team is freed, prompting Mitsuki to question what Boruto's markings were. Having decided to depart, Mitsuki stopped Sarada from pursuing Koji, leading to the man complementing Mitsuki's judgement before leaving.

 Kawaki Arc 

left|
On the group's way back to Konoha, Mitsuki noticed something, prompting him to go investigating. Despite being a fair distance away from the crashed blimp, the team discovered destroyed puppets, as well as an unconscious boy in the vicinity. As he woke up, Kawaki unleashed a shock wave around himself, which the Konoha shinobi dodged. After he refused to provide them with information regarding the crashed blimp and wanting to be left alone, their conversation is cut short by Garō, who engaged in battle with Kawaki.

When Kawaki killed Garō with a massive blast, Boruto protected his team by absorbing part of the explosion with his Kāma, which only cemented Kawaki's opinion that the party was affiliated with Kara. After Kawaki fainted from overheating, Katasuke examined him, and determined his body was a highly advanced scientific ninja tool. Mitsuki wondered if Kawaki had been a product of cloning technology like himself, admitting he was an engineered clone of Orochimaru. Katasuke corrected him, explaining Kawaki's body was modified through inorganic means. The group decided to take Kawaki to Konoha to meet with the Hokage.

In the anime, while Konohamaru went to report to the Hokage, Sarada and her team first brought Kawaki back to the research institute to be looked after, where the strange boy was detained. Eventually, he was able to escape, prompting the institute into a state of emergency. Team 7 came to the conclusion that the boy would attempt to escape via the train and went to the nearest village. As their effort failed, they heard a disturbance and investigated. They found Kawaki attacking Sumire. The police had also found the boy and engaged him, forcing him to retreat. Boruto looked after Sumire while Mitsuki and Sarada went after Kawaki. As the boy's rampage began causing much collateral damage, Naruto arrived. Having heard from Sumire that the boy was just emotionally scared from his hard past, the Hokage took pity and passively subdued Kawaki.

Ultimately, it was decided that Kawaki would be watched over by Naruto as a guest in his home. In the anime, Sarada brought Mitsuki along to spy on Kawaki's actions. There, they watched as Naruto began aiding Boruto in taijutsu practice. Midway, Kawaki insisted that Boruto should use his training time to become more familiar to his Kāma, activating his own mark, which resonated with Boruto's to activate as well. While Sarada was amazed at such a power boost Boruto gained from using the mark, Mitsuki was concerned, noting to himself that all power comes at a price.

left|
Over time, Mitsuki noted the his friends began opening up to Kawaki, and Kawaki to them. He attributed Boruto's acceptance of Kawaki to him saving Himawari from Delta's attack. Kawaki was even allowed to be the Hokage's first student in ninjutsu. Mitsuki noted that if he became proficient in ninjutsu, on top of access to his Shinobi-Ware and Kāma, Kawaki would become a truly powerful individual. Later when talking about the nature of the Kāma, it was noted that it has the same shape as the Strength of a Hundred Seal. While initially disregarded as irrelevant, Mitsuki noted that there is much history in it and a lot that remains mysterious, prompting everyone to look into it. Finally opening up, Kawaki revealed that person who modified his body and placed the Kāma on him was Jigen, a man they will inevitably have to fight one day. Later, Mitsuki bluntly asked what would Boruto do if he never gets his Kāma removed. Boruto said he would treat this like a mission as any other with the goal of succeeding, which Mitsuki admired as an answer.

Later, Mitsuki noticed Boruto's Kāma began activating again and spreading across his body. As Boruto feared that something was wrong with Kawaki, Mitsuki joined Boruto in haste. As Mitsuki and Boruto arrived, asking what happened, Kawaki explained what Jigen appeared and took Naruto. He was then suddenly subdued by Shikamaru's Shadow Imitation Technique. Openly noting his distrust of Kawaki, Shikamaru had a team of ninja use a Four Violet Flames Formation to lock down the area while he interrogated Kawaki about the recent events. Like Shikamaru, Mitsuki wondered why if Naruto was defeated, why Jigen hadn't returned yet. Shikamaru theorised that they were either still fighting or Jigen was weakened too much to return. Suddenly, Kawaki's prosthetic began reacting. Realising that Naruto was still alive, just detained, Kawaki reattached the arm decided to test a theory. By synchronising his mark Kāma with Boruto's, they were able to produce the same rift Jigen had did earlier. While Shikamaru refused to let Kawaki or anyone enter the rift, Kawaki used his Kāma to escape Shikamaru's technique while he and the genin entered the rift to find Naruto. On the other side, they arrived in a large rocky terrain, where they met Boro. 

As the children prepared to fight the Inner member, Boro quickly displayed his might, forcing them on the defensive as Boruto and Kawaki used their Kāma to absorb the foe's techniques. When the foe paralysed Kawaki and Boruto in a dark mist, he expressed his delight in meeting Boruto, noting that Boruto's Kāma meant that Kara's time limit for completing their plans can now extended through Boruto as the vessel of Momoshiki. Mitsuki attempted to blow it away in vain. He baited Boro with a Lightning Release and used his snakes to try restraining him. Boro simply overpowered him, even healing from venomous snake bite without issue. Sarada's interference allowed the children to retreat. Mitsuki revealed to have collected some of the mist with his snake, and had Sarada analyse it with her Sharingan, confirming it to be composed of viral particles. He suggested her to act as team leader, and using the blood he collected from Boro when his snake bit him, he administered anti-bodies for the virus to the group. After Sarada created an opening, Boruto and Kawaki destroyed much of Boro's upper body, including his head, but he regenerated them. Mitsuki explained what he did, and while Boro was impressed, he moved to attack the kettle sealing Naruto, forcing Kawaki to break the group's formation.

left|
Taking advantage of this opening, Boro hurled some shuriken at Kawaki. Kawaki easily blocked them, but they were laced with gunpowder and exploded on him. Mitsuki and Boruto battled off Boro to help Kawaki, only for the foe to repeatedly regenerate. As Kawaki joined in the assault, weathering Boro's counter assault against the tiring children, Sarada finally made her move. Having learned from Kawaki about Boro's limitless regeneration requiring a special core in his body, she struck with her Chidori.

Successfully removing the core, Boro's body began mutating with out its stabiliser. Kawaki and Boruto were able to use their Kāma to create a rift in the seal and free the unconscious Naruto. While the kids checked on the Hokage, Boro composed himself enough to turn his rage on the kids, taking out Mitsuki. Mitsuki recovered in time to watch Boruto defeat Boro with the power boost of his Kāma, and caught him as he fell from the sky, observing he had no memory of his actions while empowered by the Kāma.

After the team returned to Konoha via Boruto and Kawaki's Kāma, they were taken to the hospital to recover. In the anime, after Naruto and Sasuke recovered from their own injuries, there was a group meeting about the recent events. Sasuke revealed that Kara had their own Ten-Tails sealed away in that separate dimension. Kawaki also informed them that each member of Kara was modified with Shinobi-Ware, granting them abilities besides ninjutsu. Separately, Sasuke questioned Sarada and Mitsuki more about the battle against Boro. She noted that Boruto not only sprouted a horn and manifested a Byakugan in his right eye with his massive increase in power, but even was acting differently. This concerned Sasuke. Afterwards, Mitsuki decided to talk with Sasuke privately. He noted that Kara has taken a special interest in Boruto, calling him "Momoshiki's Vessel". Sasuke concluded that Momoshiki used Boruto as a means to preserve himself and potentially resurrect himself in Boruto's body. He also concluded that Kawaki is facing the same ordeal with Isshiki Ōtsutsuki. In the anime, Mitsuki aided in the evacuation effort in the wake of Isshiki's arrival at Konoha.

 Chūnin Re-Examination Arc 

In the anime, following Isshiki's attack, Naruto decided to host another Chūnin Exam to boost morale and promote more chūnin. Mitsuki and his team passed the written exam, during which Mitsuki aided his team-mates with his snakes. During the second exam, in the Forest of Death, Mitsuki was able to rescue his injured ally and fend off mock enemies until they were out of the forest within the allotted time limit. He was one of 10 genin who passed the second exam, and would have to fight one of the other 9 in a one-on-one battle for the final exam. Unusually motivated, Mitsuki voiced his desire to be promoted, agreeing with his team-mates to give it their all even if they have to fight each other.

The day of the finals, Mitsuki and Boruto were approached by a concerned Himawari. She and her friends discovered some suspicious individuals, and she decided to ask for help. She took them to the train station, where they witnessed them kidnapping Amado. The genin gave chase, hopping onto the train, but were enable to find Amado or the kidnappers. Using Mitsuki's snakes, they were able to find Amado's location. In a warehouse, Amado's abductors were revealed to be from another shinobi village that wanted to recruit him. They offered a very enticing deal, including lots of money.

As Boruto and Mitsuki waited to see how Amado would respond to this, they were relieved as he firmly rejected the offer, refusing to ally himself with people who only wanted his science for power. They decided to take Amado by force. Boruto and Mitsuki moved to save Amado, escaping the warehouse as it exploded in the fight. Amado indifferently thanked them, before reminding them that they have the finals to get to, to which they swiftly left.

The two didn't make it back in time, and were informed by Sarada they had been disqualified when they weren't present for a match between one another. They wished they could have fought, watched the final match, and cheered for Sarada when she was promoted. That night, Mitsuki and Boruto returned to the arena to have their match.

Days later, Team 7 discussed how Konohamaru would no longer by their team captain following Sarada's promotion. When Konoha learned that Konohamaru stayed behind as a prisoner during a mission, Team 7 was sent as their mission history allowed them to better coordinate with him. Observing the village as they arrived, they ascertained the hostage situation and Konohamaru's intent, so Boruto distracted Hyōgo and his subordinates long enough for a fog to roll in, allowing them to free the hostages. They joined with Konohamaru, having closure of a final mission together, helped repair the village, and returned to the village, where they took one last photo as a team.

During a mission to move livestock, the team noticed two suspicious shinobi passing by. With the mission nearly over, Boruto and Sarada left the remainder of it to Mitsuki while they investigated. Upon finishing his mission, he received orders from Konoha to aid Team 10, realising that Boruto's instincts were right. After both missions were completed, Mitsuki joined Boruto to visit Kawaki as he recovered in the hospital. Knowing that Kawaki joined Team 10 on their mission as a test for genin status, Mitsuki voiced his opinion that Kawaki might not be suited as a ninja considering how reckless he can be.

 Great Sea Battle of Kirigakure Arc 

In the anime, after Kawaki officially joined Team 7 as a genin, they were assigned to escort Katasuke to a ceremony in Kirigakure, for the unveiling of new advanced power plants. They were also ordered to covertly investigate rumours of a terrorist threat posed to the event. After the ceremony, Kawaki protects the group from shrapnel when an airship crashes.

Boruto later revealed to him that the attack was a diversion for a prison breakout. Team 7 procured a boat to go check on Team 5, who were on a mission in an area that was being taken over by the Funato Clan. He was surprised when Kagura joined them, having recruited Buntan Kurosuki, Hebiichigo, and Kyohō Fuefuki. As they sailed, tensions rose, and Mitsuki advised them not to cause a ruckus on such a small boat. 

When two Funato pirates stopped the boat, Sarada and the others successfully hid while the ship captain bribed them with gold, but Kawaki's seasickness caused them to get discovered, and after defeating the two pirates, they sped away from the scene. Upon arriving at Dotō Island, which had been occupied by the Funato Clan, Kagura decided that only Sarada and Mitsuki would go ahead to spy on the situation. They soon found all the inhabitants of the island being forced into labour. Eventually, the two found Team 5, who explained the situation. Devising a plan, Mitsuki and Sarada rescued the hostages, defeating a few Funato soldiers to conceal their escape. After getting on the ship acquired by Team 5, Mitsuki helped to keep Funato soldiers from boarding until the ship departed.

On the way back to rendezvous with Kagura and the others, Iwabee alerted them of a massive Chakra Cannon from the enemies' fortress ship. After narrowly dodging the first shot at the ship, everyone was saved by Kagura's team, having turned the Chakra Cannon back on the fortress. Mitsuki and his group picked up their allies and returned to Kirigakure. The following morning, Taiki was discovered to have been murdered. Mitsuki examined his body, determining the murder weapon had been very heavy. Suspicion fell on Kyohō, who was discovered trying to clean blood off Kabutowari, and had recently gone through a rage he had no memory of. He claimed innocence. Mitsuki partnered with Kagura to search the ship. When a witness gave damning testimony against Kyohō, Kawaki developed a plan to expose the real culprit by faking Kyohō's death. After Kobanza killed himself to destroy their engine, Mitsuki expressed interest in Kawaki over his plan.

Eventually, they were discovered by master shipbuilder, Kajiki. Unable repair the engine, Kajiki instead towed the ship back to his port for proper repairs. As Kawaki decided to stroll the island, Mitsuki began following him around, much to Kawaki's annoyance. Later, they received a message from Kirigakure, determining that the swordsmen's sentence would only be reduced by 3 years. Later, Team 7 discussed how to proceed given their original mission. At night, the Funato clan attacked, but by morning they had been repelled. Mitsuki joined in investigating the attack.

After deciphering a coded message recovered by the Funato, they discovered the sea battle was a distraction to launch a sneak attack on Kirigakure while most of their forces were away. The Konoha-nin decided to keep helping, so Kagura took them to childhood village, which was on the route the Funato forces were taking to Kirigakure. Mitsuki helped in fortifying the village's defences. The next day, they learned the Funato had sent scouts ahead. While most villagers were evacuated, three children were missing, one of them with Kawaki's Konoha forehead protector, which would expose their presence. Mitsuki joined Kagura's group in retrieving the children before the scouts came across them.

Mitsuki aided Iwabee in finalising the traps in the ravine. However, Funato scouts discovered their plans, and foiled the traps. Forced to fight, they defended themselves until Team 5 arrived just in time to block Funamushi's Water Release: Furious Roaring Tornado with a landslide, having been alerted of their situation by a snake sent by Mitsuki. They retreated to the village, blocked all water sources to deter his jutsu, and evacuated all non-combatants. Mitsuki fought the Funato when they arrived, and Funamushi's uses his own men's blood to use his jutsu. When Kagura was exhausted from cutting through it with Hiramekarei, Mitsuki dropped his weapons when Funamushi held Kagura hostage, and watched in shock as he stabbed Kagura through his chest.

Furious at Funamushi, everyone retaliated. Funamushi initially repelled them with his Water Release, but Boruto overpowered him by activating his Kāma and landing a Rasengan, prompting a Funato retreat. As Kagura died, he asked them to protect the village, and Mitsuki noted the difficulty in getting proper medical attention in such a secluded village. After his funeral, everyone agreed to take orders from Sarada. Mitsuki and Team 7 later asked Boruto about his earlier Kāma use, but he assured them he was still in control and had no intention of relying in Momoshiki's power.

While the village recovered from the attack, Mitsuki volunteered to search the area for the Funato with his snakes, while others foraged for food. Mitsuki later declined to eat so the villagers could when they had to ration food. He later reported no Funato sightings, and kept watch as Denki and Iwabee left with children taking them to fruit trees beyond the mountains.

After discovering that Denki and Iwabee were captured by the Funato, Mitsuki spotted them around the village, though in fewer numbers than before. Boruto commented on finding Funamushi's Water Release familiar, and asked Mitsuki about Suigetsu's Hydrification Technique. Mitsuki confirmed that while using it, Suigetsu is vulnerable to Lightning Release. The next day, the remaining Funato attacked harder than before. When it began to rain, Funamushi used his Water Release: Raging Jellyfish, which required Mitsuki to pull Sarada out of a tentacle's way, the two of them and Buntan later using Lightning Release to distract him from Hebiichigo. Despite him being defeated and killed, Hebiichigo died from his attack. After she was buried, Mitsuki commented that despite the loss.

Two days later, Team 7 aided Metal in searching for Denki and Iwabee, discovering an injured Funato soldier instead. They brought him back as a potential source of information, creating friction with the swordsmen and the villagers. The next day, Denki and Iwabee returned on their own, and revealed their theory on why Funamushi didn't kill them or used them as bargaining chips in negotiations, which many found unlikely. That night, Mitsuki and Kawaki were alerted of an attack, and arrived just after Sarada, when Gokai and Kobuna retreated. When Boruto and Kawaki argued over the situation, Mitsuki complimented Kawaki's ability to convey his feelings, admitting his difficulty in doing the same. Kawaki proposed that Mitsuki should also have a way, one not as aggressive as his, as he knew Boruto for a long time. When they returned, he was shocked to learn that Ikada was Seiren's younger brother from the captured Funato soldier.

As everyone began struggling to believe this news, they learned on the radio that Ikada was indeed a member of the Funato, having joined his father in an all-out attack on Kirigakure. As Boruto was left mortified to know he drove Ikada down this path, Mitsuki asked Boruto to think carefully on what he wanted to do and be true to himself. As Boruto voiced his desire to stop the war and save Ikada from his hatred, Mitsuki joined him with Sarada in heading to Kirigakure to aid the Mizukage. While they were initially stopped by Buntan and Kyohō, who insisted they must face the Funato, Denki and Iwabee fended them off, allowing Team 7 escape, except for Kawaki who remained firm that war was inevitable and decided to stay.

After an initial struggle to get help sailing, Kajiki agreed to help them get to Chōjūrō, Mitsuki and Sarada holding onto the ship due to the rough waters. Upon meeting up with Chōjūrō, they supported Boruto's request for the end of the conflict, and were surprised when Chōjūrō revealed Isari's attempt at peace and death by his own weapon. Boruto managed to convince Chōjūrō to let them try talking Ikada out of the conflict, so they returned to Kajiki's ship to get to the Funato. Sarada offered to steer the ship, and Boruto asked her and Mitsuki to trust him and cover for him.

Team 7 arrived at the main Funato warship, but had their ship destroyed by Ikada. As each of Boruto's appeals were in vain, Mitsuki assured him he tried more than enough. He pointed out to Ikada that there were people being helped by the Shinonome 1 that the Funato wanted to destroy. He was shocked when Boruto offered his life to end the war.

Ikada agreed to the terms if his team-mates didn't interfere with his death or sought revenge after it. Mitsuki and Sarada protested it, but Boruto made them promise to honour his choice. They struggled watching Boruto being attacked by the Funato. After Boruto jumped into the water when Kobuna hesitated to push him, Sarada admitted she did hate the Funato for it, but wouldn't seek revenge because she promised Boruto. Mitsuki echoed her feelings. Impressed by their dedication, Ikada saved Boruto himself, to Mitsuki's and Sarada's relief, and declared the war over. Mitsuki angrily told Boruto never to make him go through something like that again.

Following the Funato surrender, the Konoha-nin returned home to report. There, they learned from the Mizukage of how the Funato lost much influence in the country. As Boruto and Kawaki began arguing about the former's new idealism, their feud ultimately came to blows with each other. Mitsuki watched in amusement, knowing the two were merely letting off steam.

Team 7 was later assigned a mission in investigating attacks on former Wind Release user shinobi. During it, Mitsuki found Mikazuki, who he hadn't seen in a long while, being taken care of by Hibiki. She and her brother Kodama turned out to be responsible for the attacks, as they were searching for a man with a scar on his chest who killed their father. Because he withheld knowledge that she was responsible for the attacks for a while, Mitsuki was put in administrative leave for a week.

 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

In the anime, Team 7 taught an Academy class as special instructors for a day. Mitsuki demonstrated his Lightning Release: Snake Lightning to the students, and later held an exercise which led to a dispute between the students that lasted a couple days.

When the Academy held a festival, Mitsuki and his friends attended. When the festival received a terrorist threat, the former students offered to help removing explosive tags around the area.

 Labyrinth Game Arc 

In the anime, when Boruto didn't return from a mission after splitting from Sasuke, Mitsuki and Sarada went to investigate. They interviewed Thunder Train employees, discovering that the Department of Prisons was also asking questions, and that an employee working the day of the train's disappearance suddenly quit. While discussing the case, they heard something and discovered money, eventually finding the missing employee, who they followed near a track switch and a tunnel. The employee mentioned them becoming part of someone's experiments before entering the tunnel and triggering explosive tags, which collapsed the tunnel on top of him as he and Sarada watched in shock. Mitsuki stayed behind to continue investigating while Sarada returned to Konoha to research the missing train passengers. He was attacked by a group of skilled shinobi, who left him immobilised with several sealing tags, and traps for whoever tried to help him. Sarada and Kawaki found him, Kawaki triggering the trap and setting himself on fire to burn through the tags, freeing Mitsuki. He updated them on what happened to him, and was told there might be Outer involvement with the case.

They found and chased one of those shinobi, but were ambushed by their team. Sarada realised they were Konoha Anbu, and their superior allowed them to share intel. They introduced themselves as part of the Five Great Countries' Joint Investigation Team, who were looking after the recent mass disappearances, and reveal that Kiseru was their undercover agent who had infiltrated Kara, and had been assigned to the mission. When the team wanted to call of the search over lack of development to try a different approach, Mitsuki stole one of their communication devices, and was surprised when Boruto contacted them with his and the other captives' location.

 Code's Assault Arc 

Following Isshiki's defeat, Boruto was put indefinitely off activate duty to be monitored for his Kāma. Mitsuki and his friends decided to talk about this, as they were all concerned about Boruto's future.

Later, Kawaki joined Team 7 for training. Soon, Kawaki found basic shinobi drills pointless. As Mitsuki asked what Kawaki suggested instead, he quickly attacked Mitsuki. The attack was quickly blocked, impressing Kawaki. As Boruto and Sarada were angry at Kawaki's sudden attack methods, Kawaki voiced that the brutal training he underwent from Jigen ultimately pushed him leaps forward in short periods of time. Kawaki continued his assault until finally coming to a standstill with Boruto. Boruto and Kawaki made bet with each other on who would dictate their training style, with Boruto ultimately winning in a sparring match. As Kawaki honoured the bet but voiced his distaste at Boruto's methods, Mitsuki was amazed at how Kawaki still had such a bad attitude.

 Omnipotence Arc 

After Boruto was killed by Kawaki and resurrected through Momoshiki's Kāma, Mitsuki and Sarada checked on him, looking at his scar. Unaware of the truth, Mitsuki questioned why Code would kill Boruto if he needed him as a sacrifice for the Ten-Tails. Unable to share the truth per Shikamaru's instruction, Boruto told him Code had poor self-control and didn't think ahead much.

Later, he and Sarada watched as Boruto and Sasuke talked. Mitsuki felt terrible over not being there for Boruto, and considered what he might do if someone tried to kill Boruto. He asked Sarada if she had feelings for Boruto, her insisting that her wanting to protect Boruto was independent from feelings, and pointing out his own focus in Boruto. They decided to get stronger.

Team 7 was later asked for their first mission in a long time. Mitsuki and Sarada arrived at Boruto's home, where he displayed an agitated attitude, and Mitsuki was confident that whatever happened, Boruto would remain Boruto. At the Hokage's office, Shikamaru and Konohamaru briefed Team 7 on their current Ōtsutsuki threats, and updated them on what transpired between Amado, Code, and Ada. Explaining Ada's entrancing and clairvoyant abilities, they revealed Team 7 would be living with Ada and Daemon, Mitsuki watching the siblings, Boruto, and Kawaki from afar along Sarada and Konohamaru, also keeping an eye on whether Boruto was still acting as himself.

As the team finished setting up for Ada's arrival, Mitsuki found his part of the mission pointless as Ada would be able to know everything through her Senrigan. As Shikada, Chōchō, and Inojin arrived to check out the rumours of this beautiful new ally for Konoha, Ada arrived. Mitsuki, Chōchō, and Inojin were instantly smitten at the sight of her, Mitsuki finding this whole sensation, eager to see more of her.

Mitsuki heard Amado's explanation about Ada's and Daemon's shinjutsu abilities, transplanted from Shibai Ōtsutsuki's remains, through a comm system. When Delta approached him and Sarada, asking for permission to see Ada, Sumire arrived shortly after, issuing Ada's shutdown command. He sympathised with Sumire's struggle, and remained concerned about being affected by Ada's ability. Later, when Ada wanted to talk to Sarada and Sumire, Mitsuki offered to join them, but Konohamaru refused, pointing out his previous susceptibility. When Kawaki left after a commotion with Boruto over Momoshiki, Boruto asked Mitsuki which way Kawaki went, but Kawaki shrank himself, so Mitsuki couldn't see him. Konohamaru once again warned Mitsuki against looking at Ada when she prepared to go out.

When Kawaki sealed Naruto and Hinata away, and intended to kill Boruto again, Mitsuki and Shikamaru found them fighting at the Hokage Rock. Mitsuki held Kawaki's arm to stop him from absorbing ninjutsu, while Shikamaru's jutsu stopped him from shrinking down. Kawaki escaped when Momoshiki manifested through Boruto and absorbed Shikamaru's jutsu. Mitsuki agreed with Boruto when he blamed Kawaki for his eye getting slashed protecting Sarada from Kawaki.

Furious at Kawaki's for hurting Boruto, he rushed off to kill Kawaki. As he was followed by Sarada to stop him a flash appeared in the sky. It caused everyone to swap their memories of Boruto and Kawaki, viewing Kawaki as the Hokage's son and Boruto as the treasonous stranger. Mitsuki and Sarada then found Boruto. Upon which, Mitsuki activated his Sage Mode Transformation and attack Boruto. Sarada, who was somehow unaffected by the memory rewrite, tried to reason with Mitsuki. As Sarada held off Mitsuki long enough for Boruto to escape, a report from Shikamaru revealed that Boruto apparently killed the Seventh Hokage. As Sarada was petrified by this news, Mitsuki rushed off to finish off Boruto.

 New Era: Part II 
 Boruto's Return Arc 

Three years later, Mitsuki remained attached to Kawaki as he had been to Boruto. Kawaki was not bothered by his killing intent towards Boruto, but mostly about being constantly followed. He left Mitsuki behind, who began wondering to himself if Kawaki really was the sun that illuminated his moon.

Later, as Mitsuki was standing guard on Kawaki and Ada, Kawaki sensed Boruto's presence. Not wanting Kawaki to engage Boruto, who could detect him back, Mitsuki incapacitated Kawaki with his venom before contacting the Eighth Hokage to inform him of Boruto's return. Mitsuki attacked Boruto, who dodged his strikes, and ignored Sarada asking him to stop. Boruto departed the village, but Mitsuki managed to plant a snake on him, and gave chase. Using Sage Mode, Mitsuki attacked Boruto, who easily countered his every attack, eventually holding a sword to Mitsuki's neck. Boruto withdrew it, noting how Mitsuki longed for Kawaki to shine the sun upon him despite his refusal, and claimed to be Mitsuki's real sun. Mitsuki attacked enraged, buy couldn't bring himself to actually harm Boruto. Boruto revealed that Naruto and Hinata were still alive, clarifying he has no intention of killing Kawaki, and left telling him that if Mitsuki insisted on needing a sun, he could come find him anytime, even if Boruto fully believed Mitsuki capable of shining on his own.

Upon returning, Mitsuki talked to Ada, and thanked for introducing him to the feeling of love, even if they were fake. They discussed how such feelings were part of identity, something Mitsuki struggled with as an artificial person. Later, after the sentient God Trees attacked the village, Boruto was captured and brought to interrogation. When the "traitor" refused to answer questions, Shikamaru called on Mitsuki to help with his venom. Secretly, he told Mitsuki to help free Boruto, giving him the code to remove Boruto's cuffs. To which, Mitsuki feigned fury and tackled Boruto, using his snake to free Boruto, who then quickly teleported away. Mitsuki apologised for his "mistake".

 Matsuri and Ryū Arc 

Later, when Shikamaru learned from an unknown source that two God Trees were going to go to the Land of Wind, Team 7 was deployed to work with Araya and Yodo to deal with them. Mitsuki voiced his concern about the dubious nature Shikamaru learned about this, but ultimately found Ryū and Matsuri. Following Shikamaru's plan to feign befriending the God Trees as Matsuri had feelings for Konohamaru, the team approached the God Trees. They pretended not to know who and what they were, telling the two that hunting down Boruto. It was agreed to join with the God Trees to find Boruto. Soon, Konohamaru convinced the God Trees to separate under the pretense of better searching the area, Mitsuki and the other kids pairing up with Ryū.

As the shinobi claim they have leads on Boruto's whereabouts, Ryū follows them. They meet up with Yodo and Araya, the former who shows noticeable aggression towards Ryū. Mitsuki asks Ryū why the God Trees want Boruto dead so badly. Ryū admits that Jura finds it too troublesome that Boruto knows about the Thornsoul Bulbs. As Sarada suggests that they use a Thornsoul Bulb to lure out Boruto, Ryū agrees and produces his own. Unable to restrain herself in the hopesof free Shinki, Yodo rushes to steal the bulb, only for it to be a fake made of Iron Sand. Having seen through the shinobi's deception, Ryū decides they must be punished. He uses his Iron Sand, which he secretly coated them with, to manipulate their bodies into attacking each other. To Ryū's surprise, Araya frees everyone with his Magnetic Iron Sand Sealing Blade, having developed it with Shinki previously.

With Araya's technique to protect them from Ryū's Iron Sand, the team goes on the offense. As Mitsuki enters Sage Mode and seemingly pins the God Tree down with his snakes, Ryū reveals his ability to transform himself into Iron Sand to escape. Ryū then summons several Claw Grimes to aid him, overwhelming the shinobi with their relentless attacks. As Araya slashes a Claw Grime, the creature quickly secures the blade in its wound. Ryū then teleports the Claw Grime away, with Araya's sword and leaving him defenseless.

As Ryū quickly overpowered his foes and captured them, he offered to spare them if they revealed any useful information on Boruto or his accomplice. Mitsuki proclaimed for no one to speak as the God Tree would still kill them regardless. Ultimately, as no one gave Ryū a good answer, he struck down Yodo. As Yodo was still clinging to life, Sarada revealed her Mangekyō Sharingan, creating an orb to suck up all the iron sand, freeing everyone. Sarada ordered Mitsuki to protect Araya and Yodo. Mitsuki watched as Sarada fought Ryū using her newfound ability for the first time, concerned by her much colder demeanor. As Sarada succeeded in defeating Ryū, she collapsed due to chakra exertion, to which Mitsuki managed to catch her safely.

As Ryū's Thornsoul Bulb emerged, Jura appeared through a Claw Grime. Mitsuki instantly recognised him as the Human God Tree's leader. Despite this, Jura paid them no attention, instead flying off after a long-distance blast failed to hit its target. Mitsuki quickly realized Jura was heading in Konohamaru's direction.

After the remaining Claw Grimes were defeated, Araya, having completed his mission, left with Ryū's Thornsoul Bulb and Yodo to Sunagakure to free Shinki. Soon after, Konohamaru arrived with Matsuri's Thornsoul Bulba, having defeated his Human God Tree with Boruto's aid. As Mitsuki explained the situation with Jura, he suggested they go help Boruto. Konohamaru declined, insisted that they still had their mission to return Matsuri's Thornsoul Bulb to Moegi. Konohamaru also trusted that Boruto a plan. Upon returning to the rendezvous point, carrying the unconscious Sarada, they were met with Delta. Soon enough, Boruto teleported with Kawaki to the group. With everyone met up and them having obtained Matsuri's Thornsoul Bulb, the group decided to return to Konoha.

 Mamushi Arc 

In the following days, Mitsuki was assigned as part of a secret team to deal with the Mamushi, who would be attacking the village soon to get Ada. He was chosen also because he was one of the few who accepted Boruto as an ally. Finally, Mamushi arrived, earlier than expected. Shikamaru contacted the team through Inojin's Mind Body Transmission Formation. He explained the Human God Tree's Division ability and began coordinating the team against the threat. As Mitsuki was currently being interrogated by Kobu for the escape of Boruto, Shikamaru told him not act rash. If anything, wait for any sudden chaos to happen first before leaving the interrogation.

As Kobu questioned Mitsuki, he noted that Boruto's cuffs were no faulty, meaning a random attack wouldn't unlock them, concluding that Mitsuki must have deliberately released Boruto. He demanded to know which of the only three people who knew the code gave it to him. Suddenly, Konohamaru returned, proclaiming that Boruto's escape was his fault, having forgotten to lock code in the first place. Via Inojin's mind-link, Mitsuki asked why Konohamaru is lying. He revealed to Mitsuki he knew that Mitsuki did this on orders by Shikamaru, noting they need to keep Shikamaru's status as Hokage going. However, Kobu however easily so through the lie, realizing that Konohamaru was trying to protect someone. From this, he demanded that the acting Eighth Hokage be interrogated next.

Ultimately, as the Mamushis reached the hundreds, it was decided to lure them to Ada to gather them in for one combined assault. As Ada made herself visible and drew them together, Mitsuki joined Daemon and the Konoha team to begin their counterattack. While soon getting the hundreds of Mamushis down to under 50, their plan to wipe them remainder out in one assault failed when Sarada fainted from overusing her Mangekyō Sharingan. The remaining Mamushis, now filled with survival instinct, multiplied into the thousands.

As the Mamushis continued their relentless pursuit of Ada, Injoin was summoned to the field. With it deduced that the Divisions shared a hive mind, Inojin transferred his mind into a Mamushi, subsequently taking control of all the Mamushis. He directed killing intent on Daemon so he would reflect it back on the Mamushis and destroy their eyes, the only means for Mamushi to continue dividing. Following this, all the Mamushis collapsed and disintegrated.

 In Other Media 
 Video Games 

 Trivia 
 In an early settei for Boruto: Naruto the Movie, Mitsuki's height was originally listed as 147 cm.
 According to character trivia from Boruto: Naruto Next Generations:
 Mitsuki's hobbies are databook reading and card games.
 His favourite food is scrambled eggs. Much like Orochimaru's favourite food are eggs.
 His least favourite food is meat from animals with scales.
 His attributes are: 165 in intelligence, 150 in negotiations, 140 in dexterity, 130 in strength, 123 in perception, and unknown in chakra.
 He was also given a skill rating in these particular areas:
 Espionage: ★★★★☆
 Jujutsu: ★★★☆☆
 Medical Ninjutsu: ★★★☆☆
 The Last Day at the Ninja Academy! further elaborated on this concept, and included the following skill ratings:
 Survival: ★★★★☆
 Evasion: ★★★☆☆
 Manners: ★★☆☆☆

 Quotes 
 (To Orochimaru and Log) "You adults can't tell me what to do. I'll decide what I want to do for myself!"
 (To Chōchō and Sarada) "That is commonly referred to as your tragic heroine syndrome. The condition is said to afflict young girls of a certain age who lack a certain self-awareness as they try to establish their sense of self… Well… that is if you care about such trivial things."Naruto chapter 700+2
 (To Boruto and Sarada) "Sasuke is the only shinobi who could rival the Seventh Hokage; that's according to my parent, who's even more awesome than both of your dads."
 (To Boruto and Sarada) "It would be nice if you showed some respect for my parent, too."
 (To Boruto) "Why are you apologising? I did this because I wanted to. I actually did something for someone else. If I hadn't been observing you, it would never have crossed my mind. And now that I have, it's pretty fun. And so what if I got hurt in the process, it's no big deal."