Title: Mizura
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Mizura
-----------------------

is a genin from Hoshigakure.

 Personality 
Mizura is a very caring person that would rather die instead of his comrades. He shows great care for his village and fellow genin. Mizura is willing to endure great lengths for the sake of his village. He seems to have a close relationship with both Sumaru and Hokuto, Hokuto in particular looking after Mizura when he's sick.

 Appearance 
He has medium length dull purple hair, dull purple thick bushy eyebrows and has large brown pupil-less eye irides. He generally wears a tan kimono jacket with navy blue trimmings. Part way through his arc, Naruto carves him a cane with a bell that he walks around with. Mizura has purple flame-like markings over his entire body, caused by the star training. He also is very thin and frail looking, his ribs sticking out from his sickness.

 Part I 
 Star Guard Mission 
He and the other Hoshigakure genin like Sumaru and Hokuto were using the meteor training method to increase their powers. He, like many before him, fell to the side effects of the meteor training and was confined to bed. When Neji looked at his body with his Byakugan, it is shown that his chakra system was in overdrive, which caused him to get very sick, his chakra literally eating away at his internal organs.

He helped Hokuto expose the side effects of the star training by showing them his chest, which had purple markings on it. Akahoshi tried to dispose of Hokuto by attempting to kill her with an arrow but Mizura moved her out of the way and took the arrow instead. As he fell, he told Hokuto to continuing fighting against the Star Training for him. After Naruto defeated Akahoshi, he along with the other Hoshigakure genin, was moved to Konoha for better medical treatment. As reported by Shizune later, he is able to make a full recovery from the star training effects. After he is discharged from the Konoha Hospital, he is seen walking through the streets of Konoha with Hokuto and Sumaru and later listens to Naruto and Sumaru bicker about who will become a Kage first.

 Trivia 
  is the Japanese name for Mizura's hairstyle, with buns on each side of the head.

pt-br:Mizura