Title: Monzaemon Chikamatsu
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Monzaemon_Chikamatsu
-----------------------

was the inventor of the art of puppetry. Originally using puppets as a source of entertainment, Chikamatsu worked diligently with several shinobi to convert the talent into a unique form of combat. Eventually, he created the Puppet Technique, in which chakra strings are used to control puppets.

 Background 
Being the creator of the technique, Chikamatsu was the very first shinobi puppeteer, and as such he created the White Secret Technique: The Chikamatsu Collection of Ten Puppets.Naruto: One Decade, One Hundred Ninja, page 169 The puppets, reportedly strong enough to take down an entire castle, were designed to work together and, as such, were much more powerful than the standard puppet. One such example was the puppets' use of Three Jewels Suction Crushing, which consisted of the combining of three puppets to create a vortex that sucked in everything in range. 

Each of the ten puppets were controlled by a single chakra string from one of the user's ten fingers. It is unknown how Chiyo acquired them, but she was skilled in their use, as seen when she used them in her battle against Sasori.

Personality
Chikamatsu found entertainment in using puppets, and worked diligently to convert this art for shinobi combat.

 Abilities 
As the very first puppeteer, he was a master in this field, able to create a fighting style that outlives generations of shinobi and became a solid part in the modern shinobi world. He was probably in possession of dozens of puppets he created himself and controlled them with threads made out of chakra. A testament to his craft, he created what was to be known as the Chikamatsu Collection. This collection of ten individual puppets were created with their own special abilities and equipment. Together, they were able to take down an entire castle and even Sasori's Hundred Puppet Army.

 Trivia 
 Monzaemon Chikamatsu is based off of a famous Japanese playwright with the same name, widely regarded as the greatest playwright in Japanese history. He wrote both for the puppet theatre jōruri and the life-action theatre kabuki, and is often called the Japanese Shakespeare.
 It was thought that the inventor of the Puppet Technique was Monzaemon Chikamatsu, originally using it for entertainment purposes, and he worked diligently with other shinobi to convert the theatrical art into a unique form of combat. However, the seventh guidebook claims that this technique originated from the Ōtsutsuki clan.