Title: Mozu Shitakiri
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Mozu_Shitakiri
-----------------------

is the owner of Paradise.

 Background 
As a child, Mozu was poor. One day, she ended up lost in the woods. Tired and cold, she was found by a rare white marten that gave her warmth. Upon being found, she learned that the marten was a species thought to be extinct. After making the front page of the newspapers, Mozu saw this as a sign for what to do with her life. Seeing the marten as her good-luck charm, she killed the creature and made it into a boa pelt to wear. Over time, Mozu established herself as a seller of rare and exotic animals. She has sold pets to many elite customers, including Ikkyū Madoka, selling him a pet ferret for his son Tentō.

 Personality 
Mozu is a materialistic and egocentric woman. Having felt worthless as a child, her greatest goal is to become someone of status, willing to go to any lengths to achieve her goals, even betraying the kindness of others. In her quest for wealth and fame, she became a very business-oriented woman. She is also noted to have very eccentric fashion sense, given the overly flashy nature of her establishment. Likewise, she doesn't care to do business with anyone less than the elites of the world, including celebrities and political officials. What's more, she is very shady, willing to use threats and bribery to get what she wants. She has no concern about animals and their ecosystem, but rather how much money she can get for them.

Regarding her son Tsuzura, Mozu displays traits of a narcissistic parent. While intending to pass on her business to him, she sees him more as an investment, not wanting him to go to school and learn anything "useless", but rather teach him herself, despite not letting him learn things like reading and writing. This attitude also stems from her money-focused nature, not wanting to spend the money for school. She ignores his feelings and is even willing to cause physical harm to him to keep him in line. Her arrogance and narcissism go as far as ignoring the security chief's warnings about Sasuke Uchiha's reputation, with Mozu being indifferent towards his status, despite the security chief saying that Sasuke was "out of her league".

 Appearance 
Mozu is a plump woman of average height and light complexion. She has grey eyes and shoulder-length purple hair that curls up at the ends with bangs that hang over her right eye. She wears a red dress with a black cowl hanging at her waist with a white marten boa pelt over it. She also wears purple lipstick and eyeliner, purple nail polish, a red floppy hair hanging to the right with a black ribbon in it. She also has a golden necklace, rings on her two middle fingers and left ring finger, a golden band on her left wrist, and a pearl bracelet on her right wrists.

 Abilities 
Mozu is shown to be a very methodical businesswoman, having made a fortune in her efforts.

 New Era 
 Labyrinth Game Arc 

Wanting to add the famed Senri Hawks to her collection for selling off, the breeder and trainer of them, Maruta, refused to help provide her the endangered species even when offering a high price. In retaliation, Mozu began using threats including causing rockslides to damage his home. Later, Sasuke Uchiha and Boruto Uzumaki came to her establishment. While initially finding them not worth her time as they looked low-class, she took an interest in them after learning that Boruto was an associate of the Fire Daimyō. As she showed them around, seeing the cramped cages the animals were put in and meeting her son, Tsuzura, they were revealed as ninja, not costumers. As Boruto voiced his disapproval of her terrible treatment of animals, Mozu quickly had them removed. Later, Mozu grew annoyed at Tsuzura's new desire to attend school. Eventually, she found out that he was regularly seeing Boruto, who was teaching him things like how to care for his pet hawk Yuki. She scolded Tsuzura for this, having Yuki taken from him. When Boruto insisted that she should be proud of her son's efforts, Mozu disregarded it as pointless for business. Tsuzura relented and returned with her.

Mozu locked Tsuzura in his room, informed him that she would swell Yuki to a taxidermist, who wanted to mount in his room to match his wall, and recounted how she started the business. When Yuki went missing, Mozu deduced Tsuzura took her, and had the security officer chase him with his wolf. Boruto protected Tsuzura just outside Paradise, and Mozu threatened him with life in prison if he returned. Sasuke offered his new Senri Hawk in exchange for Yuki and Tsuzura. Mozu agreed, confident that Tsuzura, having no life experience, would return. When the hawk went in distress, instead of treating it, Mozu wanted it dissected to learn its stomach contents to narrow down its natural habitat. The hawk recovered, having been put under genjutsu by Sasuke, and proceeded to fly around Paradise, freeing the captive animals, who destroy the compound. She caught up with Sasuke, demanding Tsuzura give her Sasuke's hawk. Tsuzura stood up to her, and she threatened to destroy them with her connections, but the security officer, having learned about Sasuke, warned her he was out of her league.

 Trivia 
 Written as 鵙 or 百舌, "Mozu" can mean "shrike", while her surname could reference Shita-kiri Suzume (舌切り雀), a Japanese fable of a woodcutter who saves an injured sparrow, and his greedy and cruel wife, who eventually cuts out the sparrow's tongue.