Title: Mozuku (Land of Calm Seas)
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Mozuku_(Land_of_Calm_Seas)
-----------------------

was a boy from the Land of Calm Seas.

 Background 
Mozuku was a student under Aosa, a medical-nin in the Land of Calm Seas. When an epidemic swept the country, the daimyō used this as an opportunity to make a fortune by restricting medical care the country to only the highest payers. Aosa secretly developed a cheaper and more effective treatment for the population. When the daimyō found out, he sent elite assassins to eliminate him and his students. Mozuku and his fellow students went into hiding to further research and develop their treatment, being given enough money from their sensei to make the journey to his master's friends abroad. Upon deciding to return to the Land of Calm Seas, he and his fellow students were attacked by Kurobane and Jujumaru, so they decided to scatter, and Mozuku spent time in Konohagakure.

 Personality 
Mozuku was a timid boy with strong convictions. He believed strongly in helping his country and was willing to put his life on the line for it. He greatly admired his sensei and was eager to succeed for him. Because he grew up in a poor country, he was quite frugal with money, frequently commenting on reasons and opportunities to cut costs.

 Abilities 
Mozuku was a medical-nin, but very weak, unable to fully treat a kunai stab would with the Mystical Palm Technique. However, he was a capable researcher, able to further develop his master's treatment for an epidemic illness.

 New Era 
 Chūnin Re-Examination Arc 

In order to secure the safety of the medicine he developed, Mozuku requested shinobi protection on his way home, claiming he had purchased expensive artwork instead of disclosing the real reason, as he didn't have enough money left to afford a higher ranked mission. Team 10 was assigned to protect him, but he admonished Kawaki for being late, and criticised his attitude. Along the way, Mozuku continued to show his fear of being attacked. Eventually, after learning that Kawaki was an immigrant to Konoha who dreamed of being like the Seventh Hokage, Mozuku opened up about his own admiration for his sensei.

They were attacked by Jujumaru and Kurobane near the border, who revealed his fellow students had already been killed, and stole Mozuku's package with the medicine. Kurobane left with the supplies while Jujumaru attacked them. After defeating him, Mozuku revealed his true circumstances. Shikadai wanted them to return to Konoha for safety, as Chōchō had been injured, but Kawaki chose to ignore his orders and went ahead with Mozuku.

They soon caught up with Kurobane, demanding the return of the medicine. Mozuku tried to appeal to the man as a fellow citizen, but Kurobane coldly refused and trapped them in his illusory mist. After Kawaki managed to defeat him and cancel the technique, he tried a sneak attack on Kawaki his sword. Mozuku quickly jumped in the way to take the blow. As he died, he begged Kawaki to finish the delivery of the medicine, giving Kawaki the last of his money.

 Legacy 
Mozuku's sacrifice proved fruitful, as his medical supplies were delivered to his sensei by Kawaki. Aosa promised to cure the nation in Mozuku's memories. Mozuku's sacrifice also grealtly impacted Kawaki, who wanted to become strong enough to not let such sacrifices be needed and committed himself to become a ninja.

 Trivia 
  is a type of edible seaweed called cladosiphon okamuranus.

pt-br:Mozuku (País da Calmaria)