Title: Mozuku
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Mozuku
-----------------------

is a chūnin from Konohagakure.

 Appearance 
Mozuku has dark coloured hair that is concealed by his forehead protector which he wears like a bandanna. He also wears glasses and the standard outfit of the Torture and Interrogation Force which consists of a grey suit with pockets and lapels.

 Abilities 
Not much has been seen in the way of Mozuku's abilities but he is skilled enough to aid Inoichi in delving into the minds of the enemy in order to retrieve potentially valuable information.

 Part I 
 Chūnin Exams 

He acts as one of the proctors during the written portion of the Chūnin Exams, watching out for signs of cheating. He later fetches Anko Mitarashi when a team of Kusagakure ninja is found dead.Naruto episode 29 

 Peddlers Escort Mission 

In the anime, Mozuku accompanied Iwashi Tatami, Tonbo Tobitake, Shikamaru Nara, and Shizune to take back the Land of Vegetables from the Janin's control.

 Konoha Plans Recapture Mission 

Later in the anime, Mozuku was sent along with most of the other Konoha shinobi to advert a possible attack on the village. It was later revealed that the whole plot was conducted by Gennō.

 Part II 
 Itachi Pursuit Mission 

In the anime, he, Anko and Iwashi are seen on a mission shortly before Anko senses Orochimaru's death.Naruto: Shippūden episode 114

 Pain's Assault 

In the anime, Mozuku, along with Tonbo Tobitake and Shimon Hijiri, facilitated in Inoichi Yamanaka's Psycho Mind Transmission of Yūdachi. When Pain's assault on Konoha started, they helped to distract the Animal Path in order to give Inoichi and Shizune a chance to analyse what they had learned.

In the anime, Mozuku can later be seen assisting in battle against the Giant Crustacean before Pain disperses it.Naruto: Shippūden episode 162

 Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax 

Mozuku appears on the battlefield when the Allied Shinobi Forces arrive to help Naruto, Killer B, Kakashi and Guy.Naruto chapter 612

 Movies 
 Naruto the Movie: Blood Prison 

During Naruto's flashback to the members of the village when he was gathering natural energy to enter Sage Mode, Mozuku can been seen amongst the villagers.

 Trivia 
  is a type of edible seaweed called cladosiphon okamuranus.