Title: Mubi
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Mubi
-----------------------

is a genin from Amegakure.

 Personality 
He has been described as patient, and methodical. He like his teammates seems to really enjoy a fight, especially one that they can win easily.

 Appearance 

Mubi has a low, trimmed black hair and wore a yellow jumpsuit that was stitched up the middle along with a pair of sandals. He also wore a forehead protector that covered his whole head, a rebreather and a sash around his face leaving only his left eye visible. 

In the anime, he was seen in a kimono shirt, pants, slippers, bandages around his legs and waist and a pair of glasses with the right eye obstructed.

 Abilities 

Mubi is a fairly competent shinobi with knowledge of techniques across a wide range. He is especially proficient in genjutsuNaruto: One Decade, One Hundred Ninja, page 71 and clone techniques being able to use the Mist Servant Technique which created clones of himself as well as the Sly Mind Affect Technique both of which were used to wear out their enemies before attacking them. In the anime, he has been shown using a crossbow, and also the sword in the battle with Sasuke, which, however, was easily knocked out of his hands with the help of a kunai.

 Nature Transformation 
He is also able to use earth release techniques which allowed him to travel and emerge from underground without disrupting the surrounding area. In the anime it was also shown that he is able to create clones from water.

 Part I 
 Chūnin Exams 

In the second phase of the Chūnin Exams, Mubi and his teammates used a number of different genjutsu to cause Naruto Uzumaki, Sasuke Uchiha, Sakura Haruno and Kabuto Yakushi to waste time and tire themselves out. After having them fight illusions for a while, Mubi and his teammates engage them. They quickly find out that what appeared to be the Konoha ninja were really just shadow clones in disguise, the real ninja having been resting. Mubi and his teammates are quickly defeated and did not pass the second phase.

 Land of Tea Escort Mission 

In the anime, Mubi and his teammates, under the leadership of Aoi Rokushō, where assigned by Amegakure to help the Wagarashi family win the Todoroki shrine race held in the Land of Tea. While Oboro went to stall Idate Morino, Mubi and Kagari prepared a ship for naval combat. After sinking Idate's ship, the Ame genin went to battle Team 7 underwater, where they held the advantage. However, Naruto used his Rasengan training to hand them another humiliating defeat as the first part of the Rasengan training created a whirlpool that sucked Oboro's team into a trench. They were immobilised afterwards as they did not return, but they are assumed to have survived because of their masks.

 In Other Media 
 Video Games 

 Trivia 
 The kanji in Mubi's name stand for  and .
 According to the databook(s):
 His favourite food is steamed aubergine, and namasu.