Title: Murakumo Kurama
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Murakumo_Kurama
-----------------------

was a jōnin of Konohagakure and head of the main branch of the Kurama Clan.

 Background 
Murakumo and his wife Uroko Kurama's daughter and only child, Yakumo, was born with the full scope of the Kurama Clan's Kekkei Genkai, but also with a weak and frail body. As the Kurama Clan had produced few ninja where once they were one of the more prominent clans in Konohagakure, Murakumo was eager to remedy this predicament sought to change the clan's fortunes around by ensuring his daughter's development into her full potential as a genjutsu-user. Murakumo approached the Third Hokage and petitioned for a special tutor to oversee her training, hoping that she could overcome her frail condition by focusing purely on her genjutsu.

Later, a fire engulfed the Kurama Clan's household and killed both Murakumo and his wife, Uroko. The cause of the fire was Yakumo's own powers; because of the powers she could not control "Ido", an independent, sentient and malicious personality that existed within her subconscious could use her powers against her will and started the fire. Murakumo's daughter Yakumo, however, unaware of the Ido existence was initially convinced that her parents were killed on the orders of the Third Hokage, Hiruzen Sarutobi, before learning that the deaths of her parents was due to the Ido.

 Personality 
Murakumo showed to be a loving father, seen as he tried to comfort Yakumo when she despaired over not being able to become a kunoichi.

 Appearance 
Murakumo had long black hair and a black moustache. He has light-coloured eyes.

 Abilities 
He was presumably a very skilled shinobi, able to obtain the ninja rank of a jōnin. Given that he was the leader of the main branch of the Kurama Clan, he was most likely a strong genjutsu user.

 Quotes 
 (To Yakumo) "Everyone has a path fit for them. And there is a path for you." 

 Trivia 
 As with the other members of the Kurama Clan, Murakumo's first name is related to clouds.  is a way to refer to a gathering of clouds.