Title: Naka Uchiha
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Naka_Uchiha
-----------------------

was a shinobi of Konohagakure's Uchiha clan. 

 Background 
Naka was a close comrade of Naori Uchiha. He was able to awaken his Mangekyō Sharingan and became obsessed with the technique Izanagi, which he used to kill some of his own clansmen. In order to save him, Naori used Izanami on him to force him to accept the truth, and see reality. After struggling for a while, Naka eventually accepted his fate and broke the loop caused by the Izanami.

He presumably died at some point either before or during the Uchiha Clan Downfall, along with the rest of the Uchiha clan.

 Appearance 
Naka had grey chin-length hair,Naruto: Shippūden episode 338 preview and wore the typical attire of the Uchiha clan which comprised of a high-collared shirt with the clan's symbol emblazoned on the back, a Konohagakure forehead protector, and a variation of the village's flak jacket which more closely resembled the one worn by Anbu; it had a pouch on the left strap, and no band woven around the waist. Accompanying this was a large equipment pouch and a tantō strapped across his lower back.

 Abilities 

Naka was at least skilled with kenjutsu, considering he had a sword. He was able to awaken his clan's dōjutsu kekkei genkai: the Sharingan. The dōjutsu granted him the ability to use the technique Izanagi, which he apparently used obsessively with such skills that he could survive combat against several other Uchiha. He was also able to activate the Mangekyō Sharingan, which took the form of a red, three-point pinwheel with his pupil being prominent in the centre.

 Trivia 
  means "southern joy". Also his name read together with Naori's forms the word "nakanaori" (仲直り) meaning "Reconciliation", a possible reference to him accepting his fate trough the Izanami.
 Naka's Mangekyō Sharingan greatly resembles that of Itachi Uchiha insofar as it seems to be a negative form of Itachi's Mangekyō Sharingan, the only other differences being its pupil having a circle around it and the blade shapes being wider.
 While not appearing in the manga, Naka and the other Uchiha featured in the episode make a cameo in the final chapter of Sasuke Uchiha's Sharingan Legend.