Title: Naori Uchiha
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Naori_Uchiha
-----------------------

was a kunoichi from Konohagakure's famed Uchiha clan.

 Background 
Her close friend Naka Uchiha was able to use Izanagi and in time, became obsessed with its power. She was determined to save him from it and so ultimately cast Izanami on him in order to get him to see the error of his ways and come to accept fate. She was successful in this and Naka was able to finally accept the truth and break the endless loop the technique had plunged him into.

She presumably died either before, or during the Uchiha Clan Downfall along with the rest of her clansmen.

 Personality 
Naori was a calm kunoichi who maintained her composure even when fighting a friend and fellow clan member. She also was very kind and selfless as she tried to save Naka by making him accept his fate using a non-lethal method, sacrificing one of her eyes in the process.

 Appearance 
Naori had long wavy purple hair and cropped bangs hung over her Konohagakure forehead protector with only the Konoha symbol showing on it. She also wore the standard mantle of the Uchiha clan with their crest emblazoned on the back along with two swords strapped to her left hip by multiple bandages.

 Abilities 

Naori was undoubtedly a powerful ninja. She was shown wielding a sword, indicating skill with kenjutsu. She was also able to awaken her clan's dōjutsu: the Sharingan and was even able to awaken the Mangekyō Sharingan. Unlike most known Mangekyō forms, the colour of her dōjutsu is inverted. It is split down the middle in three and has an appearance similar to a three-petal flower.

She was also able to use one of the clan's kinjutsu: Izanami which traps the target in an endlessly-looped genjutsu with no hope of escaping unless they accept themselves.

 Trivia 
 Written as "治り", Naori means "recovery". This is possibly a reference to her desire to save her fellow clansmen from their lust for power.
 Along with Itachi, Kagami, and Shisui, Naori is one of few Uchiha who never appeared to succumb to her clan's Curse of Hatred despite her personal loss and awakening of the Sharingan.
 While not appearing in the manga, Naori and the other Uchiha featured in the episode make a cameo in the final chapter of Sasuke Uchiha's Sharingan Legend.