Title: Naraka Path (character)
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Naraka_Path_(character)
-----------------------

This man was a priest of an unknown village.

Background
He was a priest of a burnt village that Jiraiya met during his journey to find his disciple. Years later, his body was used by Nagato to channel the power of the Naraka Path in Nagato's Six Paths of Pain.

 Personality  
While as a priest, he emphasised prayer to his followers. He seemed to be a calm, level-headed individual who was devout to his religion.

 Appearance 

In the anime, while alive, he was a fairly tall, stocky man with grey hair and eyes. He wore a green poncho-like top and matching coloured pants. Much like the Kusagakure shinobi who would also one day become one of the Six Paths of Pain, his complexion was noticeably darker when he was alive. 

As the Naraka Path, like all of the Six Paths, his hair was dyed orange and had multiple piercings, such as a circular stud on the bridge of its nose, a diagonal row of studs on each of its cheeks, three spike piercings in each of its ears, and a stud on each of its shoulders near its neck. As a mark of Nagato's control, the Rinnegan appeared in its eyes.

 Legacy 
As part of the Six Paths of Pain, the Naraka Path is used for a number of different purposes over the years: all six Paths are used to overthrow and kill Hanzō; when Jiraiya infiltrates Amegakure in order to find out more about Akatsuki, the Naraka Path fights him and ultimately contributes to his death; in the anime, the Naraka Path assists in the capture of the Six-Tails; it participates during Pain's Assault, and like the other Paths it is defeated by Naruto Uzumaki.

 In Other Media 
 Video Games 

 Trivia 
 According to his Naruto Mobile profile, in life he was the leader of an unknown cult and was an intel-gatherer and support for the Six Paths of Pain. As the Naraka Path, he can also flow chakra into his targets via contact, causing an explosion.[https://hyrz.qq.com/cp/a20230308ren/page.shtml?rzwyID=90152 Naruto Mobile Pain (Naraka Path) Profile.

pt-br:Jigokudō