Title: Nawaki
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Nawaki
-----------------------

was a genin from Konohagakure's Senju clan.

 Background 

He was the younger brother of Tsunade and the grandson of Hashirama and Mito. He was also the grandnephew of Tobirama. He shared his dream of becoming Hokage with his sister on his twelfth birthday, who gave him their grandfather's necklace in the hopes that it would help him achieve his dream. The day after his birthday, Nawaki died in battle after running into an explosive trap. When Tsunade rushed to him, Orochimaru noted that his body was so heavily mutilated that it was beyond recognition. The necklace was retrieved by Orochimaru and returned to a devastated Tsunade.

 Personality 
In terms of personality, Nawaki was noted to be very much like Naruto Uzumaki as well as Dan Katō. He too held the dream of becoming Hokage and was proud of the title and his grandfather's legacy. As the First's grandson he wanted to earn the title of Hokage and protect the village that his grandfather had founded. He was also described as someone that hated losing and, like Dan, was an honourable man of justice.

 Appearance 
Nawaki had short light-brown hair, hazel eyes and distinct blushes on his cheeks. For attire, he wore a dark teal poncho top and light green pants. He was also gifted with the First Hokage's necklace which he wore around his neck. Naruto bears a striking resemblance to him.Naruto chapter 558, page 12Naruto: One Decade, One Hundred Ninja, page 96 

 Legacy 
Decades after his death, Orochimaru would offer to Tsunade the opportunity to bring Nawaki back to life, together with her lover, Dan Katō in exchange for healing his arms. The reincarnation would require a human sacrifice, though. She ultimately refused, realising that Nawaki and Dan would not want her to sacrifice the lives of others in exchange for theirs.

 Trivia 
  means "rope tree", similar to his sister's name meaning "mooring rope".
 Nawaki made a cameo appearance in the ending omake of Shippūden episode 129, holding a balloon portraying Tsunade's face.
 In the anime, where Nawaki's background is expanded on a bit more, he and two other ninja are seen in Orochimaru's company, implying that they might have been his subordinates.

 Quotes 
 (To Tsunade) "It's not just a necklace… The village is grandpa's treasure, I'll protect it! Because I am the grandson of the founder of Konoha, the First Hokage!…"Naruto chapter 160, page 8
 (To Tsunade) "Hey! I want to be like grandpa someday… I will be honoured with the name Hokage, because being Hokage is my dream."