Title: Neon Asakusa
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Neon_Asakusa
-----------------------

is an Academy student from Konohagakure. Her parents are executive members of the Kaminarimon Company.

 Background 
From a young age, Neon would regularly play with Osuka Kamakura as their mothers were longtime friends. When Osuka's parents started getting too busy with various movies to spend enough time with their daughter, Neon was asked to help look after her and keep her company. 

 Personality 
Neon is a soft-spoken and timid young girl. Insecure by nature, she easily lets herself get bossed around by others. She is a very caring person, worrying about the feelings of others. Even after Osuka blamed her for the prank targeted at Kae, Neon comforted Osuka after she started crying and remained friends with her afterwards, showing her kindness by not holding grudges against her. This also stems from her longtime relationship with Osuka, knowing that Osuka is truly a caring girl, but bitter from her loneliness and struggles with making new friends, showing Neon to be mature enough to see beyond people's faults.

 Appearance 
Neon is a fair-skinned girl of average height with purple eyes and brown hair. Her hair is chin-length and bob-cut styled with the right side tucked behind her ear. She wears a grey headband, purple glasses with circular lenses that are half-rimmed on the bottom, an orange shirt under grey overalls.

 Abilities 
Neon is quite intelligent, frequently using and testing several Kaminarimon Company prototypes for her parents, who are executive members. She uses a drone with a mounted camera, with which she is capable of handling delicate objects, and manoeuvre through narrow spaces. She has some skill in construction, being primarily responsible for the set of her class' play about the Sannin.

 New Era 
 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

Neon attended the Academy opening ceremony as part of a new class. Her classroom was put under the care of new teacher Hana Kaka. Her desk mate was Osuka Kamakura, with whom she observed the behaviour of her classmates.

When Osuka asked for tea, everyone noticed when Neon delivered it to her with a drone. While alone with Osuka, she decided to host a tea party, and denied Neon's assumption that she wanted friends. However, Kae invited the class to one first, and Neon watched as Osuka expressed her anger in Kae upstaging her yet again. Unwilling to be upstaged, Osuka forced Neon to put mustard in Kae's cake with her drone. After Kawaki caused a commotion to stop her from eating the cake, Neon excused herself, and later confessed to having done it at Osuka's orders. Even after Kae admonished Osuka for abusing Neon, she still tried comforting her. As the party resumed, Neon had some of the taiyaki Kawaki brought. When Team 7 taught her class as special instructors, they put the class through an exercise to simulate fighting on an empty stomach. During it, Neon used her drone to steal a rubber ball from Yuina Itomaki. Later, as a part of a practice for future team setups, Neon was placed on the same practice team as Eiki Fūma and Suzu Sōgi. During the first team competition, she applauded Eiki's high performance.

One day, Neon was picked at the Academy by her mother after apologising to Himawari for Osuka's rudeness. Later, Kae, Kawaki, and Batora visited her at home to ask about Osuka and Himawari, who had been kidnapped. She explained her and her mother's background with Osuka and her mother. Neon helped them find Osuka and Himawari with her drone, which featured a sensing module, allowing Kawaki to defeat the kidnappers. She witnessed Osuka and Hibari's reconciliation, after which Osuka apologised for her behaviour and Hibari invited everyone for pudding. When her class prepared a play about the Sannin, Neon was in charge of building the stage. During a struggled between Kawaki and Eiki, where Eiki was trying to expose Kawaki as an actual shinobi, he ended up damaging the set. Neon and the rest of the class joined together to fix it. During the festival, Neon worked with Harika and the Sōgi twins to make a haunted house experience, using her drones for special effects. Impressed, Denki promised to bring up developing the technology further to his father. When the festival suffered a terrorist threat, Neon stayed inside.

Later, following Hana being hospitalised from the terrorist attack, Neon joined her class in welcoming back their teacher. To make up for the festival being cancelled, Hana arranged for the class to undergo survival training on an uninhabited island. However, Kikuchiyo getting injured and their food supplies vanishing stoked fears that a rumour about killer missing-nin on the island might be true. While looking for food, Neon's group heard rustling in the trees, so they asked her to check with her drone. It got damaged, so they asked everyone help looking for it. Soul found it, and Neon was sure it wasn't a malfunction, having recently serviced it. Kawaki later asked her to show him the recorded footage of when it got taken down, showing it to him twice.

Attracted by an explosion, the class encountered Kawaki and Himawari, who revealed that Hana, actually an assassin, had killed Kae. Himawari pointed out that her actions made more sense if Hana wanted to keep Kae as a hostage. Working together, the students tracked Kae and Hana to a cave. Finding the situation too dangerous for the students, Kawaki revealed himself as a shinobi, and credited them for helping find Kae. Eiki still believed there was something they could do, leading them to the docks, hoping to get word of the situation out. They came across Sai, who came to the island with Team 25 after discovering Hana's Land of Bamboo background. Upon finding Hana defeated, her teacher personality struggled against the assassin one, eventually prevailing with the encouragement of her students and regaining control. As Kae had to return home, the class finally put on the Sannin play, and later saw her off at the train station.

 Trivia 
 Neon is a chemical element with the symbol Ne and atomic number 10. It is a noble gas, used in neon signs.