Title: Nezumi Kaitō
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Nezumi_Kaitō
-----------------------

is a jewel thief.

 Personality 
Nezumi is a very greedy and cunning person, ready for any meanness for the sake of profit. He is able to put on a show of an offended person who the police have arrested for no reason, insulting their actions. Nezumi is cruel and willing to rip open a kitten's belly without hesitation to get the jewels.

 Appearance 
Nezumi is a rather tall, thin man with a narrow, rat-like face, befitting his name. He has small grey eyes, short, dishevelled grey hair, protruding ears, and marks on his cheeks that look like rat whiskers. Nezumi wears a marsh-coloured kimono tied with a blue cloth at the waist, a grey t-shirt sticking out from under the kimono, pair of simple sandals and bandage around her legs. A small pouch hangs from his belt behind his back. During the robbery, he puts on a wide raincoat with a hood hiding his face.

 Abilities 
Nezumi is a very skilled thief who is quite devious and never leaves a trace, which is why his capture by the police has always been thwarted. He knows all the gates and easily escapes the chase, quickly disguising himself as local alcoholics and dumping stolen goods along the way, leaving no evidence against him. Nezumi is skilled at spying, stalking Mitsuki unnoticed and stealing Mikazuki without him even noticing. However, the desire to quickly pick up the hidden jewellery was used against him so he was noticed, cornered and arrested.

 New Era 

Nezumi stole jewellery and tried to hide from the combined efforts of the police and Team 7, who were hired specifically to capture him. He hid in a gateway and disguised himself as a drunk, sitting next to three men drinking alcohol. Kōtarō Fūma gave the command to arrest all four, being sure that the thief was among them. Despite the protests, they are taken away and put behind bars.

Due to the lack of evidence, all the suspects were released, and scolded the police before leaving. Kōtarō didn't believe them and put everyone under surveillance. Nezumi was delighted that he was able to fool the police, and went to track down Mitsuki, who has taken a kitten to his home, which Nezumi, wanting to hide the jewellery, fed them. The next day, he stole the kitten and ran into a doorway, trying to open his stomach and get the jewellery. At this moment, Team 7 stopped him. A police squad arrived and arrested Nezumi.

 Trivia 
  means "mouse" or "rat". His surname  means "phantom thief", which alludes to his occupation.