Title: Ningame
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Ningame
-----------------------

is Might Guy's personal summon.

 Background 
In the anime, Ningame was summoned by Guy to enter into a contract with his other student Tenten, but she offended Ningame, and he refused to enter into a contract with her.Naruto: Shippūden episode 237

 Personality 
Ningame is often-time a very stern and serious tortoise seen from his scolding of Lee when the latter tried to use the Front Lotus on Sasuke.Konoha characters 2 Like his summoner Might Guy, Ningame is also easily moved to tears; this is shown when Lee hugged Guy and apologised for what he had attempted to do to Sasuke.

 Appearance 
He is a very large tortoise. His shell is red with a yellow underside and swirls on the top with markings around his eyes which are also yellow. He wears a standard Konoha forehead protector around his neck, and an orange bandage on his right front leg. He has seemingly got larger between his Part I and Part II appearances.

 Part I 
 Chūnin Exams 

He was summoned when Lee challenged Sasuke Uchiha prior to the Chūnin Exams, and prevented the former from using the Front Lotus. He then scolded Lee for what he was going to do as Lee apologised emphatically. Guy appeared on top of his shell shortly after. He then proceeded to cry along with Might Guy and Lee as the two men embraced.

 Part II 
 Fourth Shinobi World War: Countdown 

Guy summons him while chasing after Kisame Hoshigaki while losing momentum after being thrown by Killer B. He complains that this is the first time he has summoned him in years, and the fact he did so in mid-air. Guy uses his shell as a platform and jumps again causing him to fall to the ground; he ricochets off a giant tortoise's shell before hitting the ground. Ningame has a conversation with the giant tortoise, and marvels at his size. However, the tortoise claimed that he was basically still a hatchling, which shocked him as he had never seen or even heard of a tortoise that big.

 Video Games 
Although not playable, Ningame appears in Naruto: Ultimate Ninja 2. He pops up on some maps and spins while gliding across the area hitting and damaging anyone he comes in contact with. In Naruto Mobile, he is an assist character that can create an earthen wall for defence.

 Quotes 
 (To Lee) "You think you can get away with an excuse like that! You already know what it means for shinobi to reveal his special techniques…!!!"Naruto chapter 38, page 6
 (To Guy) "It's been a long time, but what are we doing in mid-air?!"Naruto chapter 506, page 9
 (To the giant tortoise) "Wha… I've never seen or even heard of a tortoise as big as you…"Naruto chapter 512, page 4