Title: Nishi (sensor)
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Nishi_(sensor)
-----------------------

is a shinobi of Konohagakure.

 Personality 
Nishi is a committed shinobi who highly respects the Hokage, and will carry out missions without complaint. While deeply committed, his focus on the task at hand makes him susceptible to simple, but unorthodox deception. He is confident in his sensing abilities. 

 Appearance 
Nishi is a man of average height with a round face in the manga, but chiselled cheekbones in the anime. He has grey eyes, a small beard with a moustache on his face, and combed ashy hair. Nishi dresses in the standard Konohagakure shinobi outfit - blue pants and a turtleneck, a green vest and a pair of sandals.

 Abilities 
Nishi is a capable sensor who has been entrusted with the mission of guarding and monitoring Boruto and Kawaki. He is able, if necessary, to expand the target search field.

 New Era: Part I 
 Kawaki Arc 

After the Seventh Hokage mysteriously disappeared when an unfamiliar chakra had been detected, Shikamaru Nara deployed Nishi and a team to contain and investigate the Hokage's home when Kawaki was the only one that was closest to him at the time. While looking around, Nishi found a vase, which Kawaki had pieced back together after an earlier altercation. Boruto Uzumaki took the vase from him, trying to disapprove Shikamaru's suspicions of Kawaki.

Later, after Team 7 and Kawaki had escaped through a rift, Shikamaru asked Nishi if Sasuke Uchiha had any contact with the village.

 Code Invasion Arc 

After Isshiki's defeat, Nishi was assigned to keep watch over Kawaki's movements within the village. During the evening, unbeknownst to Nishi, he got his attention on a shadow clone while the real Kawaki suppressed his chakra signature and escaped from the village. Boruto's insistence on the issue exposed Kawaki's ruse, and Naruto ordered Nishi to widen his sensing radius and notify Shikamaru of the development. As the search for Kawaki proved fruitless, Naruto asked Nishi to locate Boruto, realising he went after Kawaki.

 New Era: Part II 
 Boruto's Return Arc 

Three years later, Nishi was part of a three-man squad led by Konohamaru Sarutobi to locate two tresspassers who entered the village. Jura gave chase to his target Himawari Uzumaki, while Hidari blocked their path. Hidari turned his attention to Nishi after he fended off his team, before turning his attention back to Sarada, who arrived to the team's aid earlier. Nishi continued to watch their fight as Boruto teleported to their location to save her.

After saving Sarada from Hidari, Boruto asked Nishi for help to focus on the Claw Marks, but Nishi refused to help a "traitor". When Boruto discussed Hidari's connection to Sasuke Uchiha with the other Konoha-nin, Nishi then sensed chakra moving within the Claw Marks and quickly warned them. Boruto asked Nishi its wherabouts, but he could not tell stating that the chakra was moving everywhere. A group of Claw Grimes emerged from the Claw Marks and surrounded them. Nishi and Sumire looked after Himawari as Konohamaru helped Boruto and Sarada fight Hidari.

As Hidari was defeated, Boruto was shot down by Jura, using the opportunity to retrieve Hidari's Thorn Soul Bulb. After Jura retreated, Nishi was relieved to see Himawari okay when she came to. The Konoha-nin then proceeded to detain Boruto for questioning.

 Mamushi Arc 

After Konohamaru was questioned by the Fire Daimyō's chief advisor, Kobu, about the truth behind Boruto's escape, Nishi walked in to see Konohamaru. Konohamaru asked Nishi to let him back to the interrogation room to inform Kobu that he forgot to tell one critical information.

 Trivia 
 In the manga, Nishi was only named after his character debuted in the anime, where he was given a different name in episode credits.