Title: Nonota
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Nonota
-----------------------

is a Sunagakure shinobi.

 Personality 
Nonota is rather prone to panicking, getting visibly distressed as Musai described the nature of Toroi's techniques after being magnetised.Naruto chapter 546, page 3, Panel 1 

 Appearance 
Nonota's most noticeable feature were the green markings on his cheeks that ended with two spikes pointing towards his face. He wore the standard attire of the Suna shinobi complete with the ghutrah and the black forehead protector of the Alliance.

 Abilities 
Like many Sunagakure shinobi, Nonota is capable of using the Cloth Binding Technique and the Sealing Tag to seal his opponents. Naruto chapter 546, page 5  He also has fast reflexes, being able to defend himself against Toroi's shuriken. Naruto chapter 546, page 2, Panel 2 

 Part II 
 Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation 
During the Fourth Shinobi World War, he and Musai were ambushed by a reincarnated Toroi. Musai recognised Toroi, and began explaining his abilities to Nonota, but they're attacked before he can finished. After Nonota was magnetised, Musai finished explaining Toroi's abilities to an increasingly apprehensive Nonota. Both are saved by the arrival of Naruto Uzumaki and Killer B, Naruto slamming Toroi with a Rasengan. As Toroi regenerated, Nonota proceeded to seal him.

In the anime, after they left, Nonota and Musai were briefly suspicious of the other being a transformed White Zetsu as well, before realising the enemy tried to kill them both, meaning they were both on the same side. They laughed it off, and then Musai joked, pretending to be a transformed White Zetsu, only for Nonota to slash his nose with a kunai in defence.Naruto: Shippūden episode 296

He and Musai later met up with their regiment while carrying Toroi, after explaining how Naruto and B had saved them, Torune arrived and summoned a group of Kabuto's "failures" to retrieve Toroi and the Third Raikage.

 Trivia 
 Though a nameless character in the manga, Nonota's name comes from the ending credits from the anime.