Title: Onbu
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Onbu
-----------------------

was an infant onbaa that was taken from its nest by a hawk, dropped onto Naruto Uzumaki's back, and thought he was its mother.

 Appearance 
Onbu is a ball-shaped creature covered in light brown fur with green eyes. Only its ears and face were not completely covered. It had a tuft of fur coming from the top of its face covering its forehead. Onbu also had strands of hair sprouting from its face. As it grew into a more taller creature, it's fur became lighter in colour, it's face became slightly darker, it's canines became more pronounced, its ears became more pointed, its claws grew and it's snout began to protrude outward. After meeting it's mother, Onbu's fur became completely white with its face now much darker, similar to it's mother. 

 Abilities 
After growing up, Onbu became quite strong physically, being able to block swords with his bare hands like some shinobi without any problem, deal with bandits, and even fight off his own mother.

 Part I 
 Original Anime Arcs 
In the forest, an eagle swoops down on a nest and steals an onbaa infant, enraging the mother. When the eagle came across Naruto Uzumaki, who was training and accidentally threw a Kunai at the eagle, it became frightened and dropped the onbaa on Naruto. Naruto did not know if what fell on his was the eagle's excrement, but he heads back to the village for a shower. The onbaa clung to Naruto's back for safety, mistaking him for its mother. Naruto does not notice its presence until it gropes Sakura. Despite his attempts to release it, even Kiba Inuzuka trying to pry it from his back, the onbaa cannot be removed. After seeing Tsunade, she informs them of the legend of the onbaa from her childhood, and how Jiraiya chose to look for it over his summer vacation. After three days, he returned, claiming he came across one and allegedly beat it in wrestling. Tsunade the gave Naruto Jiraiya's notes on the onbaa, which stated that infant onbaa stay attached to the back of their mothers until they are adults. Stuck with it, Naruto decides to name it "Onbu" because of the sound it makes. Onbu accompanies Naruto around the village, causing wariness amongst his friends, due to the fact that onbaa can grow to up to nine feet (three meters) tall and are dangerously powerful and aggressive; Lee believes it to be some sort of training weight, while Hinata first confronts him hearing rumors that he has a kid, she faints upon seeing Onbu, when she wakes up and sees it again, she faints again. Because of the time spent on Naruto's back, Onbu becomes obsessed with the red swirl on his jacket and will only eat fish cakes that have the same design. It can eat a seemingly limitless number of fish cakes.

After seeing the rate at which Onbu is growing, Tsunade sends Naruto on a mission to clear a fortress of its bandit-occupants. The real reason he is sent on the mission is because Tsunade hopes it will dislodge Onbu. Onbu matures rapidly during the mission and, on Naruto's way home, has become an adult that towers over Naruto. It still remains attached to his back, even when dealing with the bandits, though only momentarily releasing Naruto to save him from a bandit attacking him, before grabbing hold of Naruto once more. Once they near Konoha, Naruto is attacked by Onbu's mother, trying to get her child back. Onbu is finally separeted from naruto as the latter is flung off a cliff. After a moment with it's mother, Onbu changes one last time, and is now more hostile. After Naruto climbs back up the cliff, Onbu then attacks Naruto too, but Naruto reminds it of all the fun they had together and shows the swirl on his back, returning Onbu back to his senses and prompting it to protect him from its mother. Onbu takes Naruto back to the village before leaving with its mother.

In the end, everyone except for Naruto, including animals such as Akamaru and Tonton has their own infant onbaa dropped on their backs, as the species is now proliferating at an unbelievable rate in the village's forests, and flocks of eagles are dropping the infants in Konoha, effectively making them no longer legends. while Naruto laughs at their misfortune. When Tsunade implores Naruto on how he got rid of Onbu, he says he does not know the real answer, saying he only wrestled Onbu, irritating Tsunade more, ordering him to give a real answer as the village will be crushed from the amount of onbaa, all while Naruto laughs more.

 Trivia 
 Onbu's growth kept changing from scene to scene; at one point he was bigger and then he was smaller.
 Written as 負んぶ, "onbu" means "piggyback ride" or "carrying on one's back". Its name could also be a shortening of "onbu obake", another name for the obariyon, a child-sized yokai that demands piggyback rides from passing travellers before eventually crushing them to death. Onbu landing onto and clinging to Naruto's back in its first appearance, as well as Lee believing it to be a training weight, may have also been nods to this creature.