Title: Osuka Kamakura
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Osuka_Kamakura
-----------------------

is an Academy student in Konohagakure.

 Background 
Osuka's mother Hibari is an old friend of Neon's mother, which led to them being friends. When her parents began spending less time with her due to their careers, Neon was asked to keep her company, as Osuka struggled to make friends. From early childhood, Osuka would occasionally join her parents on their movie shoots. One such occasion was at a mountain range where she learned how to identify edible plants.

 Personality 

Osuka is a very stuck-up young girl, always wanting to be the centre of attention. She dreams of being a famous actress like her parents.  Rather spoiled, she also expects certain standards in her treatment, forcing others to comply. Taking pride in both her parents being famous celebrities, she is quick to make note of it. Eager to feel superior, she will even stoop to tasteless pranks on others. Osuka is also hot-tempered, easily getting angry whenever others receive more attention and praise than herself. She's also quite shameless, as after her petty prank against Kae Yukiwari was revealed, Osuka was quick to blame it all upon Neon, but after being called out and scolded by Kae, Osuka broke down in tears, apologising for her behaviour.

Her arrogant demeanour is in fact a means to hide her insecurity over struggling to make friends and her parents not spending enough time with her, with Neon insisting that she is really kind underneath her bitterness. When witnessing Himawari being choked by a kidnapper after defending her, Osuka bravely confronted him, telling him to leave Himawari alone as she was the one Aniki wanted, showcasing her newfound bravery and selflessness, Ultimately, after seeing how far her classmates and parents would go to help her out of genuine concern for her, Osuka's attitude changed for the better, eager to help them just as much and become much less self-absorbed.

 Appearance 
Osuka is a fair-skinned girl of average height with brown eyes. Her hair is pink and permed up with strands framing the sides of her face and short bangs. She wears a pink, sleeveless blows with a light pink off-the-shoulder, sleeveless shirt over it.

 Abilities 
While studying in the Academy, Osuka has gained proficiency in basic skills like the Tree Climbing Practice and Rope Escape Technique. Like her parents, Osuka is a skilled actress, Himawari noting her ability to embrace her character's demeanour. She has noticeable survival skills, having been taught how to find and identify edible plants.

 New Era 
 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

When enrolling in the academy, Osuka was eager to stand out, telling all who her parents were and expressing pure pride and arrogance from her lineage and wealth. She became increasingly annoyed as other students such as Himawari Uzumaki and Kae Yukiwari got more attention, and tried her hardest to up-stage them, but to no avail.

Later, eager to regain the spotlight, she decided to host a tea party at her home, only to learn that Kae had already invited her class to her own. She attended the party, and while trying to brag about her parents' famous friends, she only set up Himawari to show her up by mentioning that the Kazekage visited her home. Deciding to ruin the party, she forced Neon to use her drone to inject mustard into Kae's cake. Kawaki caused a commotion trying to stop Kae from eating it. After he excused himself, Kae sulked at the situation, and Osuka teased her about it, to the point other students felt she was going overboard. Himawari and Kawaki arrived, and exposed her as the culprit, Neon having confessed everything. Osuka tried blaming it all on Neon, leading Kae to have an outburst and reprimand her for her treatment of Neon. After the party resumed, she remained determined to be the most popular in class, and ate some of the taiyaki that Kawaki brought.

During a practical lesson day to build up their team-work, Osuka was placed into a team alongside Kura and Ehō, her being team leader. She developed a rivalry with Eiki Fūma. As Hibari's career continued to strain her relationship with Osuka, it reached a limit when Hibari threw out her favourite pudding. Leaving the Academy, she was kidnapped for ransom, with Himawari being taken along as they couldn't get Osuka completely alone. Osuka didn't think her mother would pay the ransom, but Himawari convinced her to attempt an escape. Himawari was unable to defeat the kidnapper's boss after freeing herself, so Osuka tried to appeal to being a compliant hostage so he would stop choking Himawari. He refused, and Kawaki arrived in time to protect Himawari. After the kidnappers were arrested, she was shocked to see her mother rushing to her side. Hibari explained she had been helping develop new sensing drones, which is how they found her, and revealed that she threw out Osuka's pudding because it had expired after being stored for so long. Osuka apologised to everyone for her attitude, and Hibari invited everyone for pudding.

Later, Osuka's class had to put on a play about the Sannin. Despite wishing to play the Fourth Hokage, she was cast as Orochimaru, her performance being praised during rehearsals. She overheard Eiki and Sōsha discussing a rumour that Kawaki was a real shinobi, and their intent to investigate it. During a rehearsal, Eiki went off script and tackled Kawaki, attempting to retrieve his real forehead protector as evidence for Sōsha. Osuka discreetly switched it for a prop protector, keeping Kawaki's status a secret. After everyone pitched in to repair the set, Osuka approached Kawaki and returned his forehead protector, claiming she owed him for saving her, and believing his poor attitude was responsible for him having to attend the Academy again. She promised him she'd keep his secret.

The day of the festival, Osuka was surprised that her mother finished work early to catch her play debut, Sōsha taking their photo. When the festival received a terrorist threat, Osuka decided to stay inside. Following the terrorist attack, Osuka joined her class-mates in visiting Hana who was injured during the attack, bringing her a flower basket. Later, when Sōsha published a story about Eiki having a crush, Osuka encouraged him to purse love, despite his embarrassment at the story. Later, following Hana being hospitalised from the terrorist attack, Osuka joined her class in welcoming back their teacher. She set up the entire display, giving everyone their assignments. Much to her annoyance, Kawaki ruined it by tugging on the rope too hard. Despite this, Hana was very grateful for the effort.

To make up for the festival being cancelled, Hana arranged for the class to undergo survival training on an uninhabited island. However, Kikuchiyo was injured and their food supplies vanished, stoking fear about a rumour of killer missing-nin settling on the island. Everyone formed groups to scavenge food, Osuka grouping with Himawari and Neon, and making use of her wilderness knowledge to find food. When something rustled around them, she and Himawari had Neon check with her drone, which was taken down. Everyone later looked for Neon's damaged drone. By night, everyone enjoyed their food. Attracted by an explosion, the class encountered Kawaki and Himawari, who revealed that Hana, actually an assassin, had killed Kae. Himawari pointed out that her actions made more sense if Hana wanted to keep Kae as a hostage. Working together, the students tracked Kae and Hana to a cave. Finding the situation too dangerous for the students, Kawaki revealed himself as a shinobi, and credited them for helping find Kae. Eiki still believed there was something they could do, leading them to the docks, hoping to get word of the situation out. They came across Sai, who came to the island with Team 25 after discovering Hana's Land of Bamboo background. Upon finding Hana defeated, her teacher personality struggled against the assassin one, eventually prevailing with the encouragement of her students and regaining control. As Kae had to return home, the class finally put on the Sannin play, and later saw her off at the train station, Osuka promising Kae she would be a famous actress when they next met.

 Trivia 
 "Osuka" could be a shortening of Osukā (オスカー),  meaning "Oscar".