Title: Ran Sōgi
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Ran_Sōgi
-----------------------

is an Academy student of Konohagakure. He is the twin brother of Suzu.

 Personality 
He is a rather curious boy, any news about his classmates picking up his interest. He also acts in sync with his sister, simultaneously and with the same facial expressions, surprised by another rumour. He and Suzu are competitive with one another, and yet still close to each other as they are apprehensive about spending time apart.

 Appearance 
Ran is a short boy with blue eyes and short blue hair. He wears a white suit with a dark blue turtleneck underneath and a blue scarf tied around his neck.

 New Era 
 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

Ran attended the Academy opening ceremony as part of a new class. His classroom was put under the care of new teacher Hana Kaka. His class included his sister and many children of famous people, including the daughter of an acting duo, the daughter of the Seventh Hokage, and Kae Yukiwari, the princess of the Land of Bamboo. The class also included Kawaki, a noticeably older student.

Later, he attended a tea party at Kae's home. After Kae angrily scolded Osuka Kamakura for forcing her friend to ruin the tea party, Ran and the other classmates openly applauded Kae, finding her true outspoken side more enjoyable than the prim and proper demeanour she had been hiding behind.

Days later, Ran and Suzu joined a group of students who wanted to investigate the Academy's Seven Mysteries at night. They fled the group when Batora faked one of the mysteries using Water Release and red pain in a bathroom. The following day, Ran and Suzu told their other class-mates about their experiences. During a practical lesson, Ran was placed in a team with Doseki and Yuina.

Ran's class had to put on a play about the Sannin. When Eiki's struggle with Kawaki damaged the stage, Ran joined in the repair efforts.

The day of the festival, the twins made use of their experience with the Seven Mysteries to create a great haunted house booth along Harika and Neon. When the festival received a terrorist threat, they stayed inside.

Later, following Hana being hospitalised from the terrorist attack, Ran joined his class in welcoming back their teacher. To make up for the festival being cancelled, Hana arranged for the class to undergo survival training on an uninhabited island. However, Kikuchiyo was injured and their food supplies vanished, stoking fear about a rumour of killer missing-nin settling on the island. Everyone formed groups to scavenge food, and later to look for Neon's damaged drone. By night, everyone enjoyed their food.

Attracted by an explosion, the class encountered Kawaki and Himawari, who revealed that Hana, actually an assassin, had killed Kae. Himawari pointed out that her actions made more sense if Hana wanted to keep Kae as a hostage. Working together, the students tracked Kae and Hana to a cave. Finding the situation too dangerous for the students, Kawaki revealed himself as a shinobi, and credited them for helping find Kae. Eiki still believed there was something they could do, leading them to the docks, hoping to get word of the situation out. They came across Sai, who came to the island with Team 25 after discovering Hana's Land of Bamboo background. Upon finding Hana defeated, her teacher personality struggled against the assassin one, eventually prevailing with the encouragement of her students and regaining control. As Kae had to return home, the class finally put on the Sannin play, and later saw her off at the train station.

 Trivia 
 When written as 蘭, Ran means "orchid".
 Suzu and Ran, when combined, forms the word , the word literally means "Lily of the Valley".