Title: Ranka
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Ranka
-----------------------

is a chūnin from Konohagakure. He is a former member of the Konohagakure Intelligence Division's Analysis Team where he was in charge of autopsies.

 Personality 
Ranka cares about his teammates and doesn't want them doing anything too dangerous. Ranka fell in love with Anko Mitarashi and out of burgeoning feelings to be on the same team as her, got reassigned to the Infiltration and Reconnaissance Party.

 Appearance 
Ranka is depicted as having brown hair that is covered by his Konoha bandanna style forehead protector. He has a small pointed goatee and wears the standard outfit of the Konohagakure shinobi. He also has small, squinted eyes that rarely seem to be open.

 Abilities 
As the former personnel in charge of autopsies within the Konoha Torture and Interrogation Force, it stands to reason that Ranka was a highly analytical person with some medical knowledge.

 Part II  
 Five Kage Summit 

In the anime, Ranka, along with Tokuma Hyūga and Muta Aburame, were sent to replace Sai and Yamato who were aiding Anko Mitarashi in investigating one of Orochimaru's hideouts for Kabuto Yakushi's whereabouts.

 Fourth Shinobi World War: Countdown 

While on their reconnaissance mission, the team comes across the dead bodies of three Takigakure shinobi as Ranka checks the bodies, he confirms that it was in fact Kabuto that killed the shinobi. After hearing Tokuma's findings from scouting the area ahead of them, Ranka wonders if the masked man was "Madara Uchiha" that they had heard about from their intel.

 Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation 

While following Kabuto's trail, they are led to the Akatsuki headquarters where the team uncovered Tobi's massive army. Still shocked, Anko told him and the others to report the findings while she would investigate further. Though they initially refused to leave her behind, they soon departed. Ranka and the others are soon pursued by Chūkichi and Deidara, but Tokuma is able to warn the team and tells them to go on ahead while he attempted to hold them off.

Despite their best efforts, both Ranka and Tokuma barely survive their encounter with the reincarnated Akatsuki shinobi. Sasori then took control of his and Tokuma's body and used them as a puppets to fight the Surprise Attack Division. Ranka was later released by Omoi when he cut the chakra threads, immediately being taken away to be healed by Kiri.