Title: Renga Kokubō
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Renga_Kokubō
-----------------------

is a genin from Team 25, that has joined Konohagakure's Anbu.Boruto episode 273

 Personality 
Renga is a very hard-working individual, willing to take on large amounts of work at a time.

 Appearance 
Renga has messy black hair with shaved sides and dark-coloured eyes. He wears a sleeveless brown shirt and brown shorts.

 Abilities 

Alongside his team-mates, despite his young age, Renga excels in information gathering missions, often being assigned Anbu-class missions. He has exceptional physical strength, able to lift dozens of packages at once.

 Ninjutsu 
Renga excels in defensive techniques. With his Quarantine Wall, he can protect a large area from a strong explosion. He also has some skill in fūinjutsu, able to immobilise his foes in the field of his technique and likewise increase the power of it by working in unison with other users.Boruto episode 37 Under Sai Yamanaka's tutelage, Renga was taught Anbu combat tactics,Boruto episode 222 as well as techniques to resist mental intrusion.Boruto episode 223

 New Era 
 Academy Entrance Arc 

On the day of the entrance ceremony, as everyone began looking for an absent Boruto Uzumaki, he suddenly appeared, crashing a train into the Hokage Monument, which left Renga amazed at his antics. Later, his class was assigned by Shino Aburame to shadow a non-shinobi workplace to better understand its lifestyle.

 School Trip Arc 

Renga and his class went to Kirigakure for a field trip, where they were greeted by their tour guide, Kagura Karatachi.

 Graduation Exams Arc 

During the graduation exams, Renga was knocked out by Konohamaru Sarutobi, alongside Tsuru Itoi and Hako Kuroi, leaving all three of them unconscious. Later, following Boruto's plan, they were able to eliminate the other proctors and face Kakashi Hatake to take the bell from him. Despite their group assault, Kakashi easily repelled all the students. This however proved to be a setup to get the Sixth Hokage in a group String Light Formation. Despite their effort, Kakashi was still able to hold them off. Ultimately, time ran out with no one getting the bell. However, Kakashi still chose to pass everyone as they succeeded in the test's true goal; teamwork and loyalty. Later, he was put on Team 25 alongside Hōki Taketori and Hako Kuroi.

 Byakuya Gang Arc 

With the continued thefts performed by the Byakuya Gang throughout Konohagakure, Team 25 was assigned alongside the other genin teams to help stop the self-proclaimed noble thieves. However, the genin were not permitted to engage the Byakuya Gang without aid from a chūnin or higher-ranked shinobi.

Later, while their jōnin sensei was injured and put off duty, Team 25 began doing constant D-Rank missions. Eventually they were assigned to help with sorting packages at the post office. Hōki began giving all kinds of commands that quickly got on his team-mates nerve. The team was soon approached by Sukea, who was checking in on their work. Boruto and Sarada suddenly appeared, helping with an investigation on a mail bomber. After their fellow classmates diffused a bomb, while Hōki wanted to help out, Renga and Hako refused to continue working with Hōki any more than they were officially assigned. Before leaving, Hōki realised that there were more bombs still in circulation. Putting aside their differences, Team 25 decided to work together, working to their personal strengths to find the remaining bombs and avert disaster. Afterwards, at the suggestion of Sukea, Hōki apologised for his excessive commands, leading Renga and Hako to also apologise for their mistakes. Later, Team 25 was official reassigned to the command of Sai Yamanaka. He saw their talents as ideal for intelligence missions and began training them extensively in Anbu methods, regularly assigning them for such missions.

Sometime later, after Sumire Kakei resigned from her genin team to join the Scientific Ninja Weapons Team, Renga joined his friends in a farewell party for the former class rep.

 Mujina Bandits Arc 

When Sai learned that the visiting Fire Daimyō, Ikkyū Madoka was randomly gathering a very large sum of money, Sai and his team went to confront him. During which, Renga and his fellow genin found various members of the Mujina Bandits had infiltrated the village and swiftly captured them. They learned that Ikkyū's son, Tentō, was kidnapped by the bandits. Team 25 quickly went to work to save the boy, only to learn that Tentō was already rescued by Team 7 and also captured the bandit's leader Shojoji.

 Kara Actuation Arc 

After Sasuke Uchiha probed the gang leader's mind and learned of Kara, Team 25 was sent to aid Sasuke in investigating this new shadow organisation in Amegakure. The genin learned of underground tunnels and an area that was sealed off become of a gas leak. After mapping out the area for Sasuke and Sai, Renga and his fellow genin were ordered to return to Konohagakure.

 Ao Arc 

Renga attended the memorial service for the fallen people of the Fourth Shinobi World War.

 Chūnin Re-Examination Arc 

Renga and his team participated in the new Chūnin Exams held by Naruto Uzumaki in order to promote more chūnin. Renga and his team passed the first test, however, only Hōki was able to pass the second test at the Forest of Death and proceed to the final test. Both Renga and Hako stayed behind in order for him to take the injured subordinate out of the forest. The following day, Renga and Hako decided to help Hōki train for his match. When approached by Sai, Renga and Hako assured their teacher they were okay knowing at least one of them made it to the finals, following the Anbu teachings of winning the match even if losing the challenge.

During the final exam, Renga and Hako watched in the stands to cheer on their team-mate. Hōki was in the first match against Inojin Yamanaka, Sai's son. They cheered for Hōki's victory. By the end of the exams, Renga celebrated Hōki's offical promotion with his team.

 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

Renga and his team arrested the associates of the minister from the Land of Bamboo on the ship at the uncharted island during their attempt to kidnap Princess Kae Yukiwari as ransom for the minister's release.

 Trivia 
  means "national defence", befitting to Renga's defensive techniques.