Title: Rokuro
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Rokuro
-----------------------

is a missing-nin.

 Background 
Rokuro defected his village and had a bounty on him, leading to his capture by Anaguma and his partner. He sustained an injury he kept concealed. Back home, he expected to receive at least a life sentence.

 Personality 
Rokuro has no issue lying and manipulating to survive, even at the expense of others, but will admit defeat if someone bests him. He is also very perceptive, able to see through people's deceptions.

 Appearance 
Rokuro is a tall man of lean frame and pale complexion. He has green, straight hair with bangs hanging over the right side of his face. He has brown eyes with purple lining under them. He wears a purple, sleeveless shirt with high collar, bands around it, and grey pants, bandages on his forearms, and ankle-high sandals. Yatsume thought he smelled of blood.

 Abilities 

Giving the bounty on him and the various seals that were placed on him, Rokuro is implied to be very skilled and dangerous. He can produce grey parasites from his mouth that invade a person's body, allowing him to control their movements or kill them. Similar to Jūgo, he can morph his hands into massive blades to attack with. He is quite resilient, able to keep fighting after receiving a Vanishing Rasengan to the face, as well as enduring Boruto's Lightning Release: Thunderclap Arrow, faltering only when he took a Rasengan directly on his gut.

 New Era 
 Labyrinth Game Arc 

After being captured by Anaguma, he and Rokuro were taken from their Thunder Train and woke up in Ōga's maze. Anaguma warned those who asked against trusting Rokuro. He listened to Ōga's explanation of his experiments, and during the collapsing experiment, he held Anaguma with his legs when he was thrown off after his water threads gave out trying to hold the platform together. Rokuro was able to convince Kakesu to release his restraints by promising to save her, but he simply dropped Anaguma and ignored Kakesu's fall. When Boruto admonished him for sacrificing others, he made it clear he would sacrifice others to save himself.

While waiting for the next experiment, Rokuro deduced that the Kusa-nin with them was actually Ōga's subordinate, having suspected his triggering of the first experiment, and his wariness of the platform edges before the rules were explained. Rokuro infected him with his jutsu to force his confession, and he died asking for Ōga's help. Ōga was unbothered by it, and Rokuro chose a scroll, feeling that hesitation was pointless. In the dark room, Ōga provided with candles that would kill them if they let their lights go out, and explained their rules. Unwilling to cooperate with the larger group, Rokuro went ahead, joined by Batta and Fugō. They reached the end and had to wait for more participants to take an elevator. The girl who exploited Shamo's crush on her arrived and attached herself to Rokuro. When the rest arrived, two of them filled the missing spots on the first elevator to go up. They realised that the candles wouldn't last the entire ascent, so Rokuro claimed the girl's and blew it out so his candle would last enough. After the second group arrive, having pooled their candles into one communal candle, Ōga declared the second experiment over.

Before the next experiment, Rokuro recognised Namua's tattoos as prison ones, prompting Namua to share his past. When the experiment began, and the ceiling began to descend upon them, he asked Shamo what he did, Shamo answering he tried turning on the lights. When the manage to reveal alcoves on the walls, Rokuro fought Kiseru for one of them, deflecting his Fire Release arrows, and taking one of the alcoves when he pointed out how Kiseru's arrows were spreading fire around everyone else. Most others collaborated to uncover a hidden space under the floor, which allowed everyone to survive the experiment.

The next experiment, "Calculation", involved reaching a gate within a two hour limit, collecting cards distributed to everyone with numbers 1 to 8, each one getting enough to sum 7. Rokuro's card was 1. He eventually came across Batta's and Fugō's corpses, and claimed their 3 and 2 cards. When he reached Boruto's group, he rejected his offer to pool their cards to distribute them to maximise the number of people passing, having decided that killing everyone else would reach the goal of Ōga's experiments early, exceeding his expectations. He fought Boruto, and managed to infect Namua with his jutsu, forcing him to fight Boruto. Namua was able to resist Rokuro's control, and protected Boruto from Rokuro's attack, allowing Boruto to defeat him. Boruto still gave him his 6 card, allowing him to pass through the gate, in defiance of Ōga. Rokuro revealed that Batta and Fugō were already dead when he claimed their cards, leaving only Kiseru as the possible culprit.

While waiting for others to complete the experiment, Shamo arrived and informed him of the possibility of Kiseru working for Ōga. Rokuro saw this as an opportunity of escaping by capturing Kiseru and making him show them the way out. Namua held the gate open for the others to chase Kiseru. They cornered Kiseru, who escaped underground with his Fire Release, where he split them up. Rokuro baited Kiseru out of hiding by putting himself in a vulnerable position, but was unable to infect him with his parasite. Kiseru struck Rokuro on his concealed injury, before Boruto's attack caused him to retreat. He and Yatsume later saw Kiseru stabbing Boruto, unaware that everything in the experiments had happened under genjutsu, and they were actually in suspended animation.

Seemingly released, Rokuro joined Boruto and Yatsume in an attempt to find Ōga. While looking for an exit, he noticed they were walking around in circles. He took by force a map and access card Yatsume found on the Kusa-nin subordinate to Ōga, and looked for a way out on his own. He discovered another Ōga puppet, who attacked him and exploded. However, this was still all genjutsu. When Boruto refused to give up on Yatsume, who was the real Ōga, she woke up from the genjutsu on her own and freed everyone. Anaguma and his partner retained custody of Rokuro.

 Trivia 
 Written as "轆轤", "rokuro" means "winch" or "umbrella stroller".