Title: Ryuka Tenrō
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Ryuka_Tenrō
-----------------------

is a kunoichi from Yumegakure's Tenrō clan and the daughter of Enzo Tenrō.

 Personality 
She is good friends with Yomito Hirasaka and Taisa Amagiri. After her village was destroyed by the fake Nine-Tails, she wanted revenge more than either of her friends on Naruto Uzumaki. She was, however, against her father's idea to use the Three-Headed Guardian Beast, not wanting to endanger innocent villages.

Normally, Ryuka is an upbeat and cheerful girl. She was very grateful to Naruto and Konohagakure after they destroyed the Three-Heads which she herself unsealed on her father's orders while they were still being manipulated by Gensui.

 Appearance 
Ryuka has messy purple hair, amber eyes, wears red lipstick and has a marking of the same colour under each eye. She wears the same forehead protector as her father: a happuri-styled face plate with the exception of the two extensions upward. She wears a sleeveless pink kimono with a furry collar, and the necklace worn by members of the Tenrō clan consisting of rings attached together by red strings, ending with a tassel to the left. She wears furry wristbands on each wrist followed by bandages that go up to her elbows. She also wears a short violet skirt and dark brown pants that have furry endings right below her knees, the rest being bandaged up.

 Abilities 
Ryuka is very skilled in Taijutsu and relies mainly on it in battle. Despite her slender and feminine appearance, Ryuka has a great deal of physical strength, being able to knock enemies away with strong punches.

 Ninjutsu
Like her father, she is able to use the Tenrō-Style Ninjutsu: Beast-Human Transformation Technique, which transforms her into a wolf-like creature with greatly enhanced speed, strength and durability. In this form, aside from powerful kicks and punches, she can launch volleys of needles from her body in all directions, nearly impossible to evade.

 Quotes 
 (To Naruto) "I've been waiting for you, jinchūriki! I'll defeat you and avenge Lord Gensui! Prepare yourself!"
 (To Naruto) "Do you know how much it hurts to lose precious friends!?"
 (About her dream) ""I want to build a village where no one's bound by grudges, and everyone can wear a smile on their face… That's my dream."