Title: Ryū
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Ryū
-----------------------

was an evolved, self-aware Human God Tree produced from a Thorn Soul Bulb after Claw Grimes devoured Shinki and transformed into a tree.

 Personality 
Much like his template, Ryū has a very monotone and nonchalant nature to him. Likewise, he speaks rather respectfully, always referring to his follow Human God Trees as "Elder". He cares not for small talk and only seeks to complete his own goals. He is generally a very open-minded person, willing to work with others for the same goal. At the same time, he is very cautious and alert to potential threats. He views himself as an honest man, willing to honor any promise he makes.

 Appearance 

Ryū takes the appearance of an adult man. Like the other Human God Trees he has a pair of Rinnegan and wears clothing made from Claw Marks, appearing as jean pants and jacket, the latter having a high-collar, flowing backside, with the inner layer being orange coloured, and exposing his abdomen. Claw Mark clothing also includes high-top shoes. His marks stretch across scalp, and around his eyes. The markings on his face are reminiscent of Shinki's ヲ (wo) pattern.

 Abilities 
As a sentient Human God Tree, Ryū is immensely powerful, able to easily subdue the full-powered Code.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 15, page 19 Even the God Tree leader Jura expressed confidence that Ryū could kill Code by himself.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 15, page 28

 Shinjutsu 
Being created partial from the Claw Marks, Ryū is able to generate and manipulate them himself, able to seamlessly move through them as he pleases.

 Ninjutsu 
 Nature Transformation 
From his template, Ryū has access to Magnet Release, a simultaneous usage of Wind and Earth Release. From his clothing, he can summon forth Iron Sand and manipulate it into various constructs, or coat targets to control them. He is also able to freely transform himself into Iron Sand.

 New Era: Part II 
 Boruto's Return Arc 

After Jura's attack on Konohagakure, Matsuri discovers a Thorn Soul Bulb had sprouted and with Jura's permission, begins the process of bringing forth this new Human God Tree. After manifesting, Ryū receives his name from Jura. As adjusted to his new identity, he noticed Code spying on them inside a Daihakoten. He proceeded to capture Code with his Iron Sand. As Code was quickly made aware that the Human God Trees were too powerful for him, Jura offered Code to provide him a Chakra Fruit if he killed Boruto Uzumaki and his unknown accomplice. After Code agreed and left, Ryū asked permission to kill Code after they were done with him. Jura permitted him, but first asked what Ryū's true target. Ryū decided it was Gaara as he was the only one who could undo the Magnet Release seal placed upon him. 

 Matsuri and Ryū Arc 

Later, Ryū joined Matsuri to the Land of Wind. There, they found a dead nin-toad. Ryū determined it to be a clue to finding Boruto. Suddenly, they were approached by Team 7. The shinobi claimed they were hunting down Boruto. With their respective missions apparently the same, it was agreed to work together. Soon, Konohamaru convinced they split up to better their search, Matsuri being paired up with Konohamaru while Ryū joined the kids. Ryū admitted that he was glad he got see the shinobi were so nice, meaning he wouldn't have to kill them.

As the shinobi claim they have leads on Boruto's whereabouts, Ryū follows them. They meet up with Yodo and Araya, the former who shows noticeable aggression towards Ryū. Soon, he decides to use his Iron Sand to better scan the area. Mitsuki asks Ryū why the God Trees want Boruto dead so badly. Ryū admits that Jura finds it too troublesome that Boruto knows about the Thorn Soul Bulbs. As it is suggested that they use a Thorn Soul Bulb to lure out Boruto, Ryū agrees and produces his own. Unable to restrain herself, Yodo rushes to steal the bulb, only for it to be a fake made of Iron Sand. Having seen through the shinobi's deception, Ryū decides they must be punished. He uses his Iron Sand, which he secretly coated them with, to manipulate their bodies into attacking each other. To Ryū's surprise, Araya frees everyone with his Magnetic Iron Sand Sealing Blade, having developed it with Shinki previously. 

With Araya's technique to protect them from Ryū's Iron Sand, the team goes on the offense. Together, their unified assault begins pressuring Ryū, prompting the God Tree to summons several Claw Grimes to aid him. As Araya slashes a Claw Grime, the creature quickly secures the blade in its wound. Ryū then teleports the Claw Grime away, with Araya's sword and leaving the team defenseless.

As Ryū quickly overpowered his foes and captured them, he offered to spare them if they revealed any useful information on Boruto or his accomplice. Mitsuki proclaimed for no one to speak as the God Tree would still kill them regardless, which offended Ryū. Yodo instead offered to give Ryū her services in finding Boruto with her sensory powers. Ultimately, Ryū declined the offer and struck her down. As Yodo was still clinging to life, Ryū used his sand to force Sarada to finish the job with a kunai. At the last second, Sarada revealed her Mangekyō Sharingan, producing orbs to suck up all the iron sand, freeing everyone. Ryu was defeated by Sarada when he underestimated Sarada's Mangekyo Sharingan. His body exploded in pieces with his thorn bulb dissolving. Araya took Ryū's Thornsoul back to Shinki's location, eager to use it to free him. Araya is successful in freeing his friend with Ryū's Thornsoul, resulting in the Human God Tree's death.

 Trivia 
 Ryū (粒) means "grain". This is in reference to Ryū's source's powers and homeland.