Title: Ryūsui
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Ryūsui
-----------------------

is a genin from Amegakure.

 Background 

He and Yūdachi were the ones delivering corpses to the highest tower in Amegakure, where Pain allegedly resides. Their most recent delivery was the corpse of what would be the second Animal Path.Naruto chapter 424, pages 5-8

 Personality 
Ryūsui is highly loyal towards Pain and Amegakure, looking up to Pain with admiration due to him protecting the village and will swiftly admonish anyone insulting or even complaining about him. He is also a proud person, refusing to betray his comrades during interrogation, though this seems only to be on a superficial level, given that he squealed moments later due to fear of being forcefully transformed. Ryūsui also seems to harbour resentment towards outsiders who don't know anything about his home country. His wife saw him as being somewhat of a cheapskate.

 Appearance 
Ryūsui has a long chin-length light brown hair and light-coloured eyes. He wears a black bandanna Amegakure forehead protector tied in the back and he has a black beard. He has a scratch through the village symbol on his forehead protector to indicate his loyalty to Pain. He wears a long thick white scarf around his neck with one piece of the scarf hanging down the front to below his waist. He wears a black long sleeved shirt with a white belt around the black shirt. He also wears a pair of short black pants with bandages below on his legs. He also wears a pair of black shinobi sandals.

 Abilities 
According to Jiraiya, he had genin-level skills.

 Part II 
 Tale of Jiraiya the Gallant 

He and his partner, Yūdachi were captured by Jiraiya. When they refused to tell Jiraiya any information on Pain, even after tickle torture on his partner, he transformed Yūdachi into a frog, which frightened Ryūsui into divulging information about Pain. Jiraiya then tried to control Ryūsui in an attempt to find Pain, but was found by Konan. Ryūsui then followed Konan's orders to leave and was able to escape.

 Trivia 
  means "running water" or "stream".

 Quotes 
 (To Jiraiya) "Go ahead, make me a frog or whatever! I'm not telling one more damned thing! Even us underlings have our pride, that of a shinobi… ! I don't have anything else to tell an outsider who doesn't know a thing about our country!"