Title: Rō
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Rō
-----------------------

is an Anbu of Konohagakure.

 Background 
When Rō was a genin, he was sent on a mission with a large team. The enemy ended up ambushing and killing every member of Rō's unit. Rō hid from the enemies under the corpses of his comrades for days suppressing his chakra, pretending to be dead. It was at this time, Rō learnt that he could manipulate his chakra signature. The Anbu later placed Rō in their ranks as a result of the technique.

 Appearance 
Rō has short, spiky brown hair and sideburns. He also has brown eyes, thick eyebrows, a strong jaw and stubborn, heavy-lidded eyes. Due to him having a very old-fashioned speech pattern, coupled with his round, boulder-like appearance, he seems more like a samurai than a shinobi. While on duty, he wears a monkey-motif mask and the standard Konoha-nin attire.

 Abilities 
Rō, using the Chakra Disguise, has the ability to manipulate others chakra perspective freely, once creating a complex anachronism on one's chakra signature he can even erase all signs of his or others chakra completely or become another person's chakra signature, so that the enemy does not recognise it or is deceived by it like he showed when Komori believes a chakra presence is hidden behind the wooden barrels, but it's only a rat. He, however, notes that this technique is only useful in deceit, and doesn't actually change the amount of chakra his target possesses. 

Rō employs the use of taijutsu mainly in battle, showing considerable physical strength befitting his large frame, able to initially hold down the very strong Chōji Akimichi. As an elite member of Anbu, he is presumably skilled in kenjutsu, to which he also wields a tantō.

 Blank Period 
 Shikamaru Hiden: A Cloud Drifting in Silent Darkness 

When Shikamaru was tasked with infiltrating the Land of Silence with the dual purpose of finding missing shinobi, including Sai, and assassinating country head Gengo, the Sixth Hokage, Kakashi Hatake, assigned Soku and Rō to aid him. After showing off his abilities, Rō and the rest of the group departed at dawn at the hidden back entrance to Konoha. After arriving in the Curtain Village and assessing the situation, Rō and the rest of his squad are quickly captured by Gengo's Enlightened Ones. During captivity, he is tortured by them.

When he and the rest are brought before Gengo, he nearly succeeds in placing him and the rest in his mind-altering genjutsu until the timely arrival of Temari and her Suna and Konoha reinforcements breaks Gengo's hold on them. Rō engages the brainwashed shinobi by restraining them despite the injuries he received from torture. During Shikamaru and Gengo's fight in the darkness, the Anbu helps out his leader by disguising his leader's chakra so that the missing-nin could not sense his movements. With the mission accomplished, Rō prepares to escort Shikamaru back to Konoha with the rest of the Konoha personnel.

 New Era 
 Shikamaru Shinden: A Cloud Dancing in Forlorn Falling Petals 

Shikamaru, now advisor to the Seventh Hokage, meets with Rō and Hinoko. Since it's been a while since the three of them were together, Rō guesses that something serious has happened. Shikamaru reports the Fourth Tsuchikage's demand for Konoha's secret intel at the recent Five Kage Summit. Rō and Hinoko don't see the point of this, as the purpose of secret intel is that it remain secret. Shikamaru suspects that there's something else behind the Tsuchikage's demand and sends Rō and Hinoko to infiltrate Iwagakure to find out what. Because getting into Iwa unnoticed would be difficult even before the current riff with Konoha, Shikamaru meets with the Third Tsuchikage to draw some ninja away from Iwa, thus making Rō and Hinoko's mission easier.

Once inside Iwa, Rō and Hinoko discover that the village's ninja are preparing to invade the Land of Flowers under orders of the Land of Earth's daimyō. Because this would result in war - something forbidden by the Shinobi Union - the Fourth Tsuchikage needs an excuse to withdraw Iwa from the Union; she expects Konoha to refuse to share its intel, giving her the excuse she needs. Hinoko reports this to Shikamaru, who instructs her and Rō to remain in Iwa and continue to monitor the situation. They send regular updates to Shikamaru about Iwa's ongoing preparations until Shikamaru, through diplomatic channels, is able to stop the invasion. Shikamaru thanks them for all their work once they're back in Konoha and they offer to help him again any time he needs them.

 In Other Media 
 Video Games 

 Trivia 
  means "haze" or "gloom".

pt-br:Rō