Title: Sabiru
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Sabiru
-----------------------

was a high-ranking shinobi in Konohagakure's tactical division. He was later discovered to be a traitor and a spy.

 Background 
Sabiru was part of Konohagakure's tactical and defence division during the Third Hokage's administration. He had seemingly come up with a plan that would fortify Konohagakure's defences to the point that the Third stated that it would assure the peace in Konohagakure forever. He was, however, discovered to be a traitor of the village by Kisuke Maboroshi, an Anbu. When Kisuke confronted Sabiru, he removed Kisuke's soul from his body, leaving him in a comatose state.

 Personality 
Despite appearing as an upcoming shinobi invested in his village's security and welfare, Sabiru was a in fact a cruel man, who had no qualms about killing an innocent woman or a defenceless comatose opponent.

 Appearance 
Sabiru had spiky light blue hair and blue eyes. He wore the standard outfit of the Konohagakure shinobi complete with a flak jacket and a forehead protector on a long band that tapered off. He also wore his sleeves rolled up.

 Abilities 

Sabiru was hailed as a very intelligent shinobi for his age, capable of planning an efficient security system for Konoha all by himself, earning him praise from the Third Hokage. This, however, was later revealed to be part of his plan as a spy.

Sabiru was also capable of using the Shadow Clone Technique, and seemed to be adept at trap-oriented attacks, as seen when he used a shadow clone in conjunction with some explosive tags to throw Kisuke Maboroshi in a river. He could also perform a particular technique which allowed him to extract others' souls from their bodies, sealing them in tags.

 Part II 
 Past Arc: The Locus of Konoha 
After murdering Kisuke by deactivating his life support system, Naruto Uzumaki tried to expose him as a spy. Later with Naruto's help from Kakashi Hatake, he was found liable, but before they could extract any information from him, he was taken out by a hidden Kabuto Yakushi.

 Trivia 
 Written as 錆びる, "Sabiru" means "to rust", "to become rusty".
 Sabiru shares an uncanny resemblance to Inori's brother, a shinobi from Boruto episode #202.