Title: Sabu
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Sabu
-----------------------

is an enka ninja music master. Killer B calls him , and later, the oddly constructed .

 Personality 

Sabu is a calm, collected, and often a dead serious person especially when he is practising enka. This was demonstrated when B joked around during an enka training session, Sabu told him to take the lessons seriously. He is also very passionate about enka singing often moved to tears when performing and noting to B, that his songs should have passion.

 Appearance 
Sabu is a short, middle-aged man with dark-brown hair which he wears in a punch perm bun-style, thick eyebrows and round black eyes. He wears a cream-coloured kimono, held closed by a purple sash which has two fuzzy tassels hanging in the front. Underneath this, he wears mesh armour which stretch past the sleeves of his kimono.

 Abilities 
Despite his small stature, Sabu is shown to possess great strength, able to wield an enormous axe many times his own size, with great ease and dexterity.Naruto chapter 470, pages 10 and 12 He is also highly observant, able to determine that Samehada was absorbing B's chakra, making his attacks less effective.Naruto chapter 471, pages 14-15

 Part II 
 Five Kage Summit 

Sabu was introduced while teaching B how to put more passion in his music and singing. Kisame Hoshigaki arrived during their practice to capture B, and Ponta immediately charged at him. As soon as Ponta was defeated Sabu prepared to battle. Kisame ran towards him but was distracted by Killer B, giving Sabu a chance to strike. Killer B attacked as well, but Kisame blocked both attacks with his Samehada, but obtained a minor injury in his left shoulder from one of Killer B's katana. When Killer B began to transform, Sabu noticed that Samehada was absorbing all of B's chakra. After being freed from Kisame's water dome prison with Ponta, Sabu stood back while Killer B continued his fight with Kisame and upon seeing that B was having a hard time at it, Sabu rushed to his aid only to see Kisame's decapitated head fall in front of him and that B and A had killed him; though it was later discovered to actually be a transformed clone of Zetsu.

 In Other Media 
 Video Games 

 Trivia 
  is the nickname of Japan's most famous enka singer, Saburō Kitajima. Sabu is also the spitting image of Saburō Kitajima and also shares his birthday, October 4.
 In the anime, Sabu's name was changed to  for unknown reasons. The ending credits refer to him as .Naruto: Shippūden episodes 206-207 ending credits
 His Naruto Mobile profile states that he has very limited combat abilities.