Title: Sadai
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Sadai
-----------------------

is a mercenary missing-nin who entered the Land of Fire to kidnap Naho.

 Background 
During the Third Shinobi World War, Sadai and his group encountered and fought members of the Uchiha clan.

 Appearance 
left|
Sadai in his armour guise is a large man with a toothless mouth, giving a puppet-like impression, wearing the same head hooded uniform with a raised collar as his men. In his true form, he is a brown-haired man with dashing looks and sleeveless shirt.

 Abilities 
 Physical Prowess 
Without augmentation from ninjutsu, Sadai showed a high level of speed and agility while also demonstrating great taijutsu skill, enough to initially dominate Sasuke in combat and force him to use his Sharingan.

 Ninjutsu 
 Nature Transformation 

Sadai demonstrated great Earth Release prowess. He could easily manipulate the terrain around him to box in and turn the ground into quicksand to subdue his target. He could also encase himself in a stone armour that in addition to considerably altering his appearance, gave him great resistance from most forms of attack as well as enabling him to alter the stone as a makeshift weapon. Despite the density of his armour slowing him down, he is still considerably fast, surprising his enemies with his bulky appearance. He could also create a large wall of earth for defensive purposes or blend in and move in and out of rock undetected.

 Part II 
 Past Arc: The Locus of Konoha 
Sadai and his group intercepted Naruto Uzumaki, Sakura Haruno and Naho. Naruto managed to defeat his comrades, but his Shadow Clone Techniques and Rasengan didn't work on him. After he captured the group, Sasuke Uchiha came and battled him. After discovering his taijutsu skills weren't enough, he used Fire Release: Great Fireball Technique to burn the assailant's armour, thus showing his true face. Sasuke defeated him using Chidori, and even after his defeat, Sasuke punched him severely because of his words about Itachi Uchiha and the Uchiha Clan Downfall, and about Sasuke being weak, up to the point where Sadai began to plead for mercy. Sasuke was only stopped by Kakashi, who reminded him that they should bring Sadai back for questioning.