Title: Sakanami
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Sakanami
-----------------------

is a criminal from Land of Water.

 Background 
Sakanami was previously a miner, later leaving that life behind to become a criminal. When gold was discovered on Dotō Island in the Land of Water, he and his accomplice, Tatsunami went under the guise of helping mine to steal it. 

 Personality 
Sakanami is a rather greedy and cruel person who took advantage of the naive nature of his boss, who did not check his criminal past and allowed him to work. He was very concerned about the success of the gold theft operation, which made him very unhappy with the appearance of shinobi from Konohagakure who could foil his plan. Sakanami has shown dislike for the young ninja, outright calling them fools. Despite the fact that he and Tatsunami fight seemingly on an equal footing, it seems that Sakanami is under a little pressure from his comrade, which is especially noticeable when Tatsunami did not help his partner during his defeat by Metal Lee but decided to save the gold instead.

 Appearance 
Sakanami is a man of medium build with short brown hair and sideburns, as well as stubble on his face and fleshy lips. While working in the mine, he wore a grey turtleneck, dark pants and a belt with tool bags attached to it. He also wears gloves, boots, and a white rope around his head.

 Abilities 
Sakanami appears to lack much combat ability, though he does wield a knife.

 New Era 
 Great Sea Battle of Kirigakure Arc 

Sakanami was in the mine with a group of other workers when Ōnami brought Denki's team. Tatsunami asks where the chief was, and when he receives an answer and realizes that his plan to steal gold is failing, he and his partner take the gold from the cache and escape, locking the chief and the others inside the mine. Sakanami and Tatsunami go down to the beach and prepare a hovercraft for the escape. However, thanks to Denki's robots, Team 5 catches up with the criminals, who manage to swim away. Denki decides to use the autonomous puppets in a new way, and they slow down the boat with their elongated arms, and then cover it with a net. Sakanami increases the power of the boat, they almost manage to escape, but Iwabee breaks the engine with his stone hammer. The boat capsises and Sakanami being easily defeated by Metal Lee.

 Trivia 
 Written as 逆波, sakanami means "choppy seas".