Title: Samidare Amaashi
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Samidare_Amaashi
-----------------------

is a serial killer known as the .

 Background 
Samidare worked as a shinobi for many years, always prioritising his missions over his family. When he heard news that his sister Mikazuki died in a Kaneki Corporation chemical plant accident, he investigated, finding her involvement in a dangerous project suspicious. He tracked down her superiors and discovered they pushed the project forward despite the danger associated with it to remain competitive. Because of their excuses and disparaging of those who died in the accident, he began killing them.

 Personality 
While once a kind man who loved his family, grief and vengeance made Samidare a cruel killer. He became willing to exact revenge on all those who played a part in his sister's death. At the same time, as noted by Mitsuki, some of Samidare's original kindness still existed. Despite the vicious killings, he occasionally displayed some hesitation in them. He also appeared to like cats, as he bought a bell for Mitsuki's pet, Mikazuki.

 Appearance 
Samidare has blue short hair and eyes. He wears a grey sleeveless shirt, blue fabric tied like a skirt at the waist and secured with a grey belt, black pants and sandals. His shins are wrapped in bandages.

 Abilities 
As a former shinobi, Samidare is a highly skilled fighter with good agility, strength, and speed. He was able to knock out Kaneki with one punch, as well as deftly deflecting a kunai thrown at him in the air. Samidare is also a good swimmer, being able to stay underwater in a raging river for a long time.

 Ninjutsu 
Samidare is able to use Water Release, turning raindrops into ultra-thin needles. This technique allows him to kill a large number of people at once, as in the case of Kaneki's guards, making Samidare a deadly assassin.

 New Era 

While attacking his third victim, Samidare hesitated, and was injured in return. Mikazuki found him and brought Mitsuki to him. Mitsuki took Samidare to his apartment and tended his injury. He attempted to kidnap the Kaneki Corporation president, but was stopped by Team 7. He later managed to do it by disguising himself as a police officer and attacking outside his usual pattern of acting during rain. Mitsuki exposed him as the killer, and defeated him. Samidare used his jutsu to kill himself. Mitsuki how quickly got him to the hospital, where his condition was stabilised. As Samidare was rendered comatose, Mitsuki began visiting him regularly.

 Trivia 
 His given name "Samidare" translates as "early summer rain" and his surname "Amaashi" means "passing shower", both of which reference his infamous moniker.

pt-br:Samidare Amaashi