Title: Sana
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Sana
-----------------------

is a kunoichi from Sunagakure and a teammate of Saya and Mamushi.

 Personality 
Much like her teammates, Sana is an arrogant and sadistic kunoichi. At the same time, she is very submissive before Saya, referring to her as .

 Appearance 
Sana has long, light violet hair, tied up in a braid with two green hair-bands, and grey eyes. She wears a lime green and blue kimono with a brown corset and fishnet pants. She also has two wristbands and bandages wrapped around her legs. Her forehead protector is attached on her right sleeve of her outfit.

 Abilities 

Sana is skilled in the use of a kunai, combining it with close-range fighting. She is also quite skilled in sand manipulation, being capable of creating a vast sandstorm and cloaking an ally with pre-existing sand to provide additional defence and better mask their presence. Sana is also able to sense chakra, quickly noticing when a person's chakra reserves increase.

 Interlude 
 In Naruto's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths 

Sana, alongside her team, participated in the joint Chūnin Exams. She and her team were one of the few who managed to qualify for the second round. The next day, the second exam proctor — Temari, announced the start of the second round taken place within Demon Desert.Naruto: Shippūden episode 398 On the third day of the second exam, with the goal of having to pass obtaining an Earth and Heaven scroll from an enemy team, Saya and her team found Team Asuma. Then, Mamushi and Sana clashed against Chōji. As the battle wages, a giant Chōji restrains she and Mamushi, but they are soon freed from the Konoha-nin's grasp by Saya who turned her technique onto Chōji after leaving Ino's body.Naruto: Shippūden episode 408 

Ultimately, Ino succeeds in repelling Saya from Chōji's mind, to which the large ninja quickly counters and attacks the Suna team, forcing them to retreat. After regrouping, Saya demands to take revenge on Team Asuma for the recent humiliation. After finding Team Asuma, Sana produces a sandstorm to keep the Konoha-nin at bay while Saya unleashes a swarm of sand puppets to attack them. Sana also masks Mamushi with sand for an additional sneak attack. Despite this effort, Sakura emerges through the sand and defeats the team with a single punch.Naruto: Shippūden episode 409

Later, Sana's team arrived at the main building to await the end of the second exam. However, the Chūnin Exams were ended early before starting the finals due to controversy happening in the second exam. Instead, it was decided by Gaara that a report on each participant would be sent to their respective village leader for them to decide if they would be promoted.Naruto: Shippūden episode 413

 Trivia 
 Sana addresses to Saya as "Elder Sister", but whether she does it out of respect or to signify a family relationship is unknown.
 Sana's techniques require certain dance-like arm movements in her hand seal weaving.
 Sana's sand technique in Naruto Mobile requires the use of Wind Release, but it is unknown if Sana herself is capable of this.