Title: Sarada Uchiha
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Sarada_Uchiha
-----------------------

is a kunoichi from Konohagakure's Uchiha Clan. Because she was raised only by her mother without having her father around, Sarada initially struggled to understand who she is or what she's supposed to be. After meeting her father with the help of Naruto Uzumaki, Sarada comes to believe that she is defined by the connections she has with others. From this, she seeks to someday become Hokage so that she can connect with as many people as possible.

 Background 
Sarada is the only child of Sasuke and Sakura Uchiha, and the first Uchiha child born since the clan massacre. She was born while her mother was accompanying her father on his travels and was delivered with the help of Sasuke's old teammate, Karin, in one of Orochimaru's hideouts;Naruto chapter 700+10 as such, there is no record of her birth at the Konoha Hospital.Naruto chapter 700+2, page 6 As a way to keep a connection with Sasuke, despite being happy for him, Karin kept the umbilical cord between Sakura and Sarada. After that, Sarada's family returned to Konoha to raise her, where her parents helped her learn to walk.Naruto chapter 700+8, page 9 During her father's absence from the village while gathering information on Kaguya Ōtsutsuki, she became ill with a high fever during which her mother looked after her. After the fever ended, she began wearing glasses, which unknown to her were a gift from Karin.Naruto chapter 700+4, page 16

Due to the importance of his mission, Sasuke wasn't around much, and it is because of this that Sarada did not know anything about him, including what he physically looked like as an adult. Sakura did her best to comfort Sarada during Sasuke's absence, assuring her that her father loved both of them and that, when he completed his important mission, he'd come home. When this conversation went on for too long, Sakura poked Sarada's forehead and promised to continue it some other time.Naruto chapter 700+8, page 12 

As Sarada's parents continued to stay close to their own childhood friends, she ultimately got to know the kids of her parents' respective friends very well,Boruto episode 2 especially growing close to Boruto Uzumaki.Boruto episode 254 Whilst initially shy and unable to fit in with other children of her group much like her mother, Boruto insisted she join them, becoming one of her first friends, "saving her from loneliness".School Trip Bloodwind Records She also formed close female friendships with Chōchō Akimichi and Sumire Kakei, even confessing her doubts about her family to the other girls. In the anime, Sarada also appears to be close to Inojin Yamanaka and Himawari Uzumaki as well, referring to the younger girl as "Hima-chan". 

On the day of Naruto Uzumaki's inauguration as the Seventh Hokage, Sarada watched the ceremony beside her mother and Chōchō, and silently wondered why it was taking so long for the Hokage to appear.The Day Naruto Became Hokage OVA

 Personality 

As a child, Sarada was portrayed to be like her father, after the events of the Uchiha Clan Massacre: unfriendly, unsmiling and sullen, but her personality changed around the time of her Academy graduation. According to Naruto, her personality takes after her mother's, which he bases on the suspicion that Sarada is "scary" when she's angry;Naruto chapter 700+4, page 13 she indeed has somewhat of a strong temper, which flares up more often after her appointment to Team Konohamaru. In these and other moments of particularly strong feeling, Sarada often exclaims her mother's characteristic "Shannarō!". According to Chōchō, Sarada is also known for having a very dark side to her when confronting problems.Boruto episode 24 Anger aside, she displays a normal range of emotions, from laughing to crying to blushing in appropriate situations, contrasting with Sasuke's typical stoic reaction to every circumstance. In most situations, Sarada is kind-hearted and brave, polite to others and considerate of her friends and family, wishing well for them and standing up for them when they need her. She doesn't mind saying what she is thinking, whether it is a question she wants the answer to, an opinion she holds firmly, or a frustration she can't let go of. Like Sakura, Sarada is quite well-read: she feels comfortable arguing the differences between a panda and a normal bear, and she is apparently the only participant in the Chūnin Exams to have heard of the book series called Shinobi Strategist Detective Story, much less read all four volumes.

Stemming from her mother's influence, Sarada's wisdom, self-awareness and independence are greater than most of her peers. When Sakura told her Sasuke did have a habit of showing affection that was greater than kissing, Sarada thought Sakura was referring to sexual intercourse. However, she was actually referring to Sasuke's habit of poking her in the forehead. In the anime, Sarada seems to attempt to portray as "normal" and wanting to maintain a certain extent of normality despite her career as a kunoichi, as shown by her habit of cooking for her overworked mother, her refusal of riding on top of a train or attempting to not sprint over buildings,Boruto episode 17 and her genuine fear of horror movies.Boruto episode 139

The prolonged absences of her father upset Sarada, especially since their clan is so small, and she would periodically ask her mother about him during her childhood. Sakura would do her best to field Sarada's questions about who Sasuke was, what he was doing, and how he felt about Sarada, yet at the same time she would speak cryptically, either giving vague answers or avoiding topics entirely, not wanting to tell her daughter her father's past yet and the details of his S-rank mission. Although she put up with this for many years, Sarada started to feel that Sakura was withholding something from her in the days just before her graduation from the Academy, even extending this assumed dishonesty to all medical-nin since Sakura is one of the best healers. After getting into an argument about what Sakura may be hiding from her, Sarada came to suspect about her own lineage, a suspicion that is briefly, even though wrongly, confirmed to her at first. This initially caused her to angrily react against her parents and briefly consider leaving her home. She reconsidered this choice after talking to Naruto, who reminds her that family is defined by how people feel for each other and not from blood. Because Sarada loves Sakura and has had countless examples that Sakura loves her too,Naruto chapter 700+7, page 25 Sarada soon reconciles with her mother, thereafter restoring the good mother-daughter relationship of mutual trust, protection, and honesty the two have.

Sarada's temporary strain with Sakura occurs as a result of her attempt to cope with Sasuke's absence in her life; when she could no longer endure not having her father around, as her mother could tell her almost nothing about him.Naruto chapter 700+1 She decided to personally seek out Sasuke so that she could finally meet him and ask him directly all the things she had wanted to know, such as if he actually cared about her or her mother. Her curiosity grew after Naruto mentioned her father is a great shinobi. The excitement of getting to be in the same room as him caused her Sharingan to awaken. She was accordingly disappointed when, on seeing him, he is apparently cold and indifferent to her, providing her with none of the answers or comfort she craved, and therefore became angry with him, berating him for neglecting his own family. Nevertheless, Sarada eventually saw the emotionless shinobi exterior lifted in his brief moments of kindness to Sakura and herself. Although he is not as forthcoming as Sarada wants him to be, Sasuke is able to convince Sarada that he cares about her by reminding her that she singularly represents his bond with Sakura and his family. Since the incident with Sarada, Sasuke makes a greater effort to spend time with his family and console his child when he must be away, which, although it makes her sad, she now understands. When she does get to see him, Sarada is happy, according to Sakura, even happier than herself, and her family often takes the opportunity to eat and train together. She sometimes likes to playfully tease her parents about their love life, much to her amusement and their chagrin.Boruto: Naruto the Movie

Sarada is appreciative of Naruto, for his help in mending her relationship with her parents, finding him to be kind, warm and a cool uncle figure. She is quite interested in his philosophy of the Will of Fire, wherein he tries to form bonds with everyone that he can, particularly villagers of Konoha. Because of Naruto, Sarada decides to make it her dream to become Hokage, wanting a life in which she is surrounded by familiar people instead of the necessary but lonely ninja path her father endures. She is so fond of Naruto that in a conversation with Kawaki, she admits she has wondered on many occasions what her life would be like if she were Naruto's daughter. In the anime, she shows great appreciation for the Hokage Rock and fantasises about having her own likeness carved into it. At the same time, Sarada shares a complicated relationship with Naruto's son, Boruto. Despite he is the first friend she made, which helped her to gain the confidence to befriend reliable peers such as Chōchō, Sumire and Mitsuki, the two ninja are often at odds with one another, arguing over almost everything. She initially felt jealousy towards Boruto for the wonderful father he had and even recriminated him for "not appreciating and reproaching" his father for his difficult work as a Hokage, though she comes to acknowledge her teammate's pain and reactions as valid. Despite their arguments, they are very close friends, deeply caring for one another's well-being and actually supporting their dreams greatly. Sarada even said they have been close since they were little despite their constant fights and openly expressed seeing Boruto as someone very close to her. 

Sarada's worry for her family and friends, however, sometimes lets her emotions cloud her better judgment, resulting in her not taking into consideration other people's feelings or reasons. For example, she recklessly confronted Kawaki when he sealed Naruto and attempted to kill Boruto, being an Ōtsutsuki, even when Kawaki had grown powerful enough to the point that no one in Konoha could stop him. When Boruto and Kawaki's positions were switched due to Omnipotence, where she and Sumire were not affected, Sarada felt deep agony about Boruto's situation. So genuine was her regard for him that upon understanding the scale of his dire situation in which his life was at risk, it awakened her Mangekyō Sharingan.  This was something so potent that Sasuke, whose own memories were affected, grasped that something important had happened to his beloved child and decided to help the boy who seemingly kill his best friend. Three years later, she futilely tried to appeal for the innocence of Boruto and her father, and stubbornly insisted on helping the two by asking about his location. However, Sumire pointed out that Boruto had his reasons for keeping to himself, the main reason he nearly died to Jura was because he was focused on defending them, that Sarada failed to consider his reasons for keeping away and that she kept disregarding his pain, causing a temporary strain between her and Sumire. Upon facing the sentient God Trees and realising the true power of her Mangekyō Sharingan, Sarada began to reflect on all her goals and the way she went about them, deciding to reject all self-doubt in herself and reach her potential so there would be less obtacles in her way. Following this revelation, Sarada came to realise she had deeper feelings for Boruto. Afterward, she reconciled with Sumire, and the two agree to a friendly rivalry for his affection.

 Appearance 

According to Naruto, whereas Sarada's personality takes more after her mother, her appearance takes after her father: she has inherited the dark colour of his eyes and hair, which she keeps shoulder-length and parted to the right; Sarada is stated to have inherited most of her facial traits from her father. She often wears a pair of red framed glasses.

Early in her Academy career,Naruto chapter 700 Sarada wears a vermilion jacket, under which there is a cream-coloured vest, under which she has a high-collared white shirt with a red tie. She also wears a red skirt and black open-toed boots. As she nears graduation, Sarada begins wearing a red sleeveless qipao shirt - similar to what Sakura wore in Part II - with the Uchiha crest on the back. She also wears a pair of lilac-coloured shorts, dark purple thigh-length stockings, black shinobi sandals, and long dark purple arm warmers. Once she receives a forehead protector, she wears it around her forehead with her bangs hanging over. In the Boruto: Naruto Next Generations manga, Sarada wears a sleeveless, buttoned dull red dress bound by a yellow tie and a white belt. She wears white bandages underneath. She also wears a black fingerless glove on her right hand, similar to her father's, a black arm warmer on her left arm, and a pair of black ankle-length, open-toed high-heeled sandals with wooden soles.

Three years after Boruto left Konoha, Sarada's hair was trimmed and swiped to the left with wavy bangs. She wears earrings shaped like the Uchiha symbol, a dark choker with a circular pendant, frameless glasses, and pale-pink lipstick. She also wears a black tube top shirt with red lining on the top, black shorts, a red belt, black, high-heel sandals with black leg warmer calf-high socks with red lining on the top, and an oversized black jacket with red interior that she leaves open, with a metal plate engraved with the Konoha emblem attached to the right front panel. She typically wears her jacket off shoulder, exposing her left shoulder. When on missions, Sarada wears a standard Konoha forehead protector with a long red band as a hairband, similar to her mother's style, with the knot tied just behind her left ear and its loose ends hanging down to her shoulder.

 Abilities 
From being the daughter of two powerful shinobi, Sarada is regarded as an elite genin that excels at everything,"Boruto: Road to B", page 3Boruto episode 50  While she inherited her father’s natural talent, she is noted in the anime to be even more skilled than he was at her age.Boruto episode 222 She is deemed as a future contender to become Hokage, as her skills were evaluated at top three at the start of her Academy class.  Even before graduating the Academy, her combat skills were already considerably high, being able to quickly subdue several Mangekyo Sharingan-wielding Shin Uchiha clones.Naruto chapter 700+9, page 18 In the anime, she could even compete with a fully fledged Kiri-shinobi like Buntan Kurosuki and even defeat her. Three years after becoming a genin, she becomes powerful enough to be able to hold her own against the sentient God Tree, Hidari.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 10, pages 11-14Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 12, pages 25-26 Even more, with her Mangekyō Sharingan, she is regarded as crucial in the battle against rest of the Human God Trees, proven by her easily defeating RyūBoruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 21, pages 30-35 and several copies of Mamushi.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 31 

 Chakra and Physical Prowess 

As an Uchiha, Sarada has powerful chakra.Naruto chapter 398, page 29 She also inherited her mother’s expert chakra control and ability to focus it into enhanced strength. V-Jump #9 2019 Even before graduating from the Academy, this enhanced strength could allow Sarada to lift and hurl massive structures with ease or release the collected chakra on her strikes after making contact with a target for devastating effect, such as cratering the ground.Naruto chapter 700+9 Though in the anime, this skill was initially underdeveloped, wasting too much chakra and making the end results much weaker. As such, Sakura trained Sarada to better refine it.Boruto episode 171 Eventually, her chakra-enhanced punches became strong enough to slightly crack Deepa's carbon defense,Boruto episode 175 which was previously shown completely withstanding attacks from Mitsuki's Sage ModeBoruto episode 166 and Shinki’s Iron Sand.Boruto episode 169 She is also shown to be very adept in taijutsu, able to maneuver, with great efficiency and strike from various angles.Boruto chapter 11, pages 11-13Boruto chapter 21, pages 17-18 She is also incredibly fast, attacking the Kara Inner, Boro with her Chidori strike at speeds faster than light before he could react in time to avoid it.Boruto chapter 42, pages 39-40V-Jump #4 2020 Three years later, her physical prowess increased to where she could physically overpower the sentient God Tree, Hidari,Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 12, pages 25-26 and could even dodge his Chidori-sneak attack at point blank range, then immediately counter with her own Chidori strike.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 10, pages 11-14

 Ninjutsu 

Sarada is very knowledgeable in ninjutsu, and has been taught many of her parents' respective techniques. Like many Uchiha, Sarada has an affinity for ninja tools and her speciality is shurikenjutsu, gaining the highest marks in class.Boruto episode 4 She is able to throw her weapons quickly and with precision,Naruto chapter 700+3 even deflect a projectile with one of her own launched kunai.Boruto episode 7 She has similar aim while devoid of sight, able to perfectly hit the target mat six times in a row.Boruto chapter 13, pages 18-20 While originally struggling with the skill in the anime,Boruto episode 152 she gained proficiency in Medical Ninjutsu,Boruto episode 249 able to focus her chakra to restart a person's cardiovascular system. She is also proficient in Cooperation Ninjutsu and Fūinjutsu, able to use both to restrict a person's movements and increase the might by synchronising with fellow users.Boruto episode 37

 Nature Transformation 

Despite Sarada's age, she is quite the talent for nature transformation, able of use Wind,Sasuke Shinden: The Teacher's Star Pupil Fire, Lightning and Yin Release. She has learned several of her father's signature techniques such as the Great Fireball Technique, the Phoenix Sage Fire Technique, as well as the Chidori and Chidori Current. She can also infuse lightning into Fūma Shuriken to stun or knock back an opponent.Boruto: Naruto Next Generations, Volume 1's Sarada's Profile In the anime, after copying many of Buntan's lightning-based techniques, Sarada could create orbs, streams, and even a protective armour out of lightning.Boruto episode 30 She also later copied the Wind Release: Gale Palm from Mitsuki, which she can use in collaboration with her team-mates to launch her allies for a quick assault.Boruto episode 147

 Dōjutsu 
 Sharingan 

In the anime, it was stated that Sarada had awakened her Sharingan at an early age due to Sasuke's absence which affected her deeply.Boruto episode 21 Sarada reawakened her single-tomoe Sharingan in each eye at age 11, out of excitement to see her father again after many years.Naruto chapter 700+4, pages 16-17 While having just reawakened it, she quickly adjusted to its heightened visual perception, being able to efficiently react to and avoid threats more easilyNaruto chapter 700+9 and see Chakra Threads.Boruto episode 60 Using it, she can perform genjutsu proficiently,Boruto: Naruto Next Generations, Volume 1's Sarada's Profile as well as dispel it.Boruto chapter 3, page 46 Upon witnessing a technique being performed, she can copy the technique's hand seals to perform it simultaneously with the original user. In the anime, originally having low chakra reserves, she nearly passed out from over-usage of her Sharingan after acquiring it, she later could maintain it for an extended amount of time. In the anime, she awakened the second tomoe in both Sharingan during her second battle against Deepa. By the time Jigen invaded Konoha, she is shown to have awakened a third tomoe in both Sharingan, which when concentrated acts like a microscope, allowing Sarada to clearly identify things as small as viruses.Boruto chapter 41, pages 5-7

 Mangekyō Sharingan 

At age 12, Sarada awakened her Mangekyō Sharingan as a result of her deep anguish and worry for Boruto's safety after Ada swapped everyone's memories of him with their memories of Kawaki, who told everyone that Naruto had been killed by Boruto. Its design is eight triangles outwardly pointing in a circle around the pupil, giving a sunburst pattern. Her awakening was extremely rare, if not unique in circumstances as it was out of fear of losing a loved one, rather than the anguish of actually losing them. Sarada's eyes possess Ōhirume, a powerful technique which allows her to summon numerous orbs which she can choose to control the gravitational force around her or other targets and draw them in.Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 20, page 36-40 The technique is very versatile, as proper positioning and control of the force and perform feats like levitating the target and redirect them. Offensively, by pulling the target into the orb, the gravitational force and be amplified to the point of implosion. 

Despite quickly adjusting to and mastering Mangekyō Sharingan, like all wielders, each usage of it risks permanent damage to the given eye. By the victory over Mamushi, her sight diminished considerably. This required her a stronger glasses prescription as her previous pair still left her vision greatly blurred. 

 Intelligence 
Like both her parents, Sarada is highly intelligent and wise beyond her years. Due to her academic prowess, she was recognized as an honors student who achieved perfect scores in her Academy class.Boruto episode 35Boruto episode 152 In combat, she is noted by elite strategists like Shikamaru to already possess chūnin-level leadership and battle analysis skills at the age of thirteen.Boruto episode 112 These leadership skills have led to her being approved as team leader over other chūnin present,Boruto episode 246 or even by her own teammates during their fight against Boro.Boruto chapter 41, pages 9-11 She is capable of analysing her opponents' techniques to understand their mechanics and purposes, which has been shown numerous times when she determined that Kakō was unable to use ninjutsu for a certain period after using his Dust Release,Boruto episode 87 or when deducing the location of Boro’s regeneration core and determining that her Chidori strike would be strong enough to disable it.Boruto chapter 42, pages 31-40

 New Era: Part I 
 Academy Entrance Arc 

In the anime, on the first day of the Academy, Sarada attended her class entrance ceremony, and was placed in Shino Aburame's homeroom. After Boruto's suspension ended two weeks later, Chōchō noted that Sarada was especially close to Boruto due to their respective parents, though Sarada voiced her dislike of being considered close friends simply because of their parents. Later as Boruto fought against Iwabee Yuino, she watched the fight in the Training Hall, leading to Anko Mitarashi scolding them for skipping class.

When the class began learning about the Summoning Technique, tension arose between Sarada and Boruto, which lead to the class' two genders bickering each other. Seeing this, Shino organised a race between the boys and girls, which involved reaching a flag onto of the Academy. The challenge quickly got heated, with many of the boys being taken out of the contest until only Boruto, Shikadai, and Inojin were left on their team. Getting desperate, Boruto found a summoning scroll and miraculously summoned a snake-like creature. Going on a rampage, it knocked Chōchō off the roof, leading to Sarada and Boruto rescuing her until Konohamaru Sarutobi arrived and subdued the beast. During the ordeal, Sumire Kakei captured the flag, though the girls chose to make peace with the boys.

When Mitsuki joined her class, many girls found him very handsome, though Sarada sighed in distaste at them for judging someone purely on looks. The next day, Sarada participated in the classes welcoming party for Mitsuki, which became a disaster after Mitsuki disrupted the party with his Wind Release. Afterwards, a school repairman who was possessed went berserk, leading to Chōchō dragging Sarada into the fray. Combating the worker alongside, Iwabee, Shikadai Nara, Boruto and Mitsuki, the students managed to subdue him. The day after Sumire turned down Magire Kakuremino, Sarada and Chōchō protected her when he continued to stalk her, leading to him trapping the pair in a room while he abducted Sumire. After escaping, the group of students tracked Sumire to the Academy roof, during which Sarada blocked Magire's kunai attack on Chōchō. Talking to Magire, Chōchō deescalated the situation which consequently freed Magire from being possessed.

On her way to reporting to her sensei after night training, Sarada bumped into Boruto and began talking about Kagemasa, during which he runs off after someone. Tracking him down, Sarada saved him from a possessed Gongorō Kamakura, and managed to defeat the actor, resulting him being freed from being possessed. With a workplace field trip coming up, Sarada and Chōchō decided to do their workplace experience at a nail salon. After Sumire, Wasabi Izuno and Namida Suzumeno were attack by a possessed villager, Sarada and other students visited the three in hospital, where she escorted Boruto out when he arrived so it would remain quiet. Later, after practising in a three-man team in class, Shino was called aside to discuss the absent Sumire, leaving Sarada in charge. Returning with Sumire, all the students were delighted and embraced her return.

 Sarada Uchiha Arc 

In the anime, after learning how to walk on water, Sarada criticised the Academy boys who were raiding on a Thunder Train. The next day, as Sakura was heading off for a vacation trip, Sarada offered to take a patient's teddy bear to them in place of Sakura. During the trip there, Sarada misplaced the toy, leading her on a journey with Chōchō throughout Konoha to get it back. After recovering it, she gave it back to its owner much to her delight. During the day of the Kage Summit in Konoha, as class was ended early for it, Boruto asked his classmates to join him in pulling a prank. While none of them joined him, Sarada did follow and observe him from afar, keeping herself hidden. Later when she arrived home, she told her mother that boys are stupid, but remarked that Boruto and herself had something in common, like their similar feelings towards their fathers.

As her Academy graduation neared, Sarada became jealous that her classmates had the opportunity to train with their fathers, leading to her asking Sakura about Sasuke. Unable to answer if he wore glasses, Sakura accidentally destroyed their house when Sarada questioned if they were even married, resulting in her fainting. Leaving Sakura in Shizune's care, Sarada discovered a group photo of Taka, leading to her becoming suspicious of the woman with glasses photographed next to Sasuke. Unable to get details revolving around her birth from Shizune, she approached Chōchō, who had doubts about her own parents as well. Sarada decided to seek out Sasuke, leading to her heading to the Hokage Office, during which she overheard Naruto discussing plans to go and meet with Sasuke. Preparing to follow him, Chōchō tagged along, and they noticed Boruto arriving late to deliver a lunch to his father. Sarada offered to take it in his place, in order for her to have a reason to chase after Naruto.

As she and Chōchō hurried to catch up with Naruto, they were confronted by a boy with Sharingan named Shin Uchiha. Sarada was surprised by him, having been informed that she and her father were the only biological Uchiha left, and so Sarada refused Shin's request to go with him. He attacked them, leading to Naruto saving them after having sensed them. Overwhelmed, the boy retreated with aid from a creature. Naruto decided it would be safer for them to accompany him rather than return to the village without an escort. During their trip, Naruto told Sarada his history with Sasuke and that she resembled both of her parents, sharing her father's looks and her mother's personality. Nearing Ridge Tower, Sarada excused herself to the bathroom, when she instead ran towards the rendezvous point, during which she awakened her Sharingan at the thought of meeting Sasuke. Entering the tower, Sasuke drew his sword on her for information, believing she was one of Shin's associates. Calling him "dad", Sasuke realised who Sarada is, just as Naruto and Chōchō arrived. Reprimanding the Kage for bringing his daughter and Chōchō, Sarada defended Naruto, saying that she came without his permission because she wanted to ask him if Sakura was really her mother. Not providing any clarification or explanation for his absence from her life, Sarada ran outside and cried.

While being comforted by Naruto, the pair are attacked by a man also called Shin Uchiha, who was accompanied by the other Shin. Protected by Naruto from Shin's assault, he found himself crippled, leading to Sasuke having to shield Sarada from Shin's blades with his body. On the verge of defeat, Sakura arrived and immediately attacked the elder Shin. With both Shin's defeated, their creature transported Sakura and the pair away. Turning their attention to rescuing Sakura, the fathers decide to go to Orochimaru for intel about Shin. Arriving at the Sannin's residence, Sarada discovered that the two shinobi in her photo resided there. Pulling Suigetsu aside and informing him of her parentage doubts, Suitgetsu took DNA from her and tested it against the DNA of what he believed to be Karin's umbilical cord, which resulted in the DNA test being a perfect match. Distraught, Naruto comforted her, before the two ran outside to depart for Sakura's whereabouts, which were revealed by Orochimaru.

Arriving at Shin's hideout, Sasuke immediately rescued Sakura while crippling Shin, leading to his clone sons finishing him off. While Naruto and Sasuke fought the clones, Sarada attacked the creature that the original Shin was in the process of using to escape before he died. Approached by more clones, Sarada launched herself into the battle and decimated their foothold, repelling them away. After Naruto deescalated the situation and calmed the clones, Sakura told Sarada there was no doubt they were mother and daughter, to which Sarada agreed, and Sasuke stated she is the proof of her parents' connection. After the ordeal, the group enrolled the clones into the Konoha Orphanage before returning to Konoha with Sasuke. After spending some time together, the Uchiha took a family photo, and Sarada along with Sakura later saw Sasuke off as he left the village. In Orochimaru's hideout, Karin revealed that the umbilical cord belonged to Sakura and Sarada. Returning to the Academy, Sarada thanked Boruto, as her act of delivering Naruto's launch to him ultimately led her to decide on becoming Hokage. In the anime, after Sarada learned Boruto's Shadow Clone Technique by copying it with her Sharingan, she began to train her dōjutsu in secret, hoping to master it before revealing it to her peers.

 Naruto Shinden: Parent and Child Day 

During the new Konohagakure holiday, Parent and Child Day, Sarada resigned herself to spend the family-uniting holiday training with Boruto while Sasuke was still away on mission and Sakura had to spend much of her time at the hospital. Later, she found to her joy that Sasuke had indeed returned to the village. Having spent such little time with Sarada, the normally poised man struggled to connect with his daughter, simply trying to get inspiration wherever he could, instead simply embarrassing Sarada. Finally having enough, Sarada stormed off. She was then approached by Boruto. While Sarada feared that her father really didn't know her, Boruto countered that Sarada didn't know much about him either. At Boruto’s suggestion, he insisted to just enjoy the time she has with him. Later, while working on her shuriken skills, Sasuke approached her again, applauding her on the goal of becoming Hokage. He insisted that she would make a better Hokage than he ever could and would support her through her struggles, much to her delight. As the day ended, she and Sasuke returned home where the entire Uchiha family enjoyed a hearty meal together.

 School Trip Arc 

In the anime, Sarada volunteered Boruto to be their class' trip leader for their upcoming trip to the Land of Water. Upon arriving in Kirigakure, the class was escorted around the village by Kagura Karatachi, during which they met the Fifth and Sixth Mizukage. Later, Sarada found Tsurushi Hachiya injured, leading to her treating his injuries and being informed of Boruto was in danger. Finding Boruto defeated at the Kirigakure Academy, she gave him first aid and was informed that Shizuma Hoshigaki was exploiting Kagura. Wanting to notify their teachers of Shizuma's intentions, Boruto stopped Sarada, as it was his job as the field trip leader to make sure it ends without an incident.

After the Mizukage became aware that Kagura had betrayed Kiri alongside Shizuma's gang, Sarada and Boruto approached the pair, Being told that Kagura must suffer the consequences for breaking the rules, Sarada questioned if Chōjūrō truly wanted to kill Kagura, before telling him that the Hokage she aspires to be would never sacrifice a life for the village. Pressuring Chōjūrō into making the situation look like a fight between kids rather than a rebellion, he accepted Boruto's preposition and decides to assist the pair as their "guide". Confronting the group in Memorial Park as they prepared to begin their village revolution, Shizuma casts mist around the surrounding area to conceal the fight. Ichirōta Oniyuzu used Shibuki to break apart the ground, leading to Sarada falling into a cavern below.

Confronted by Buntan Kurosuki, she pressured the student with her array of Lightning Release techniques in conjunction with Kiba. Managing to survive using her Sharingan, the fight came to a stand still after Sarada copied Buntan's techniques using her dōjutsu. After managing to cast genjutsu undetected, Sarada used a paper bomb to explode the hydrogen that had been built up during their fight in the cavern, which resulted in Buntan becoming unconscious. Exhausted, she collapsed. Stopping the rebellion, Tsurushi had to carry Sarada on his back to her hotel as she couldn't walk. Afterwards, they departed the village and returned to Konoha, where she, Boruto and Iwabee received punishment for their actions during the field trip.

 Graduation Exams Arc 

In the anime, in the final days as classmates, Sarada went camping with a handful of students at the Kaminarimon Camping Grounds. Later, as ninja classes began preparing for the graduation exams, Sarada was accompanied by Sakura when Shino interviewed her about her future goals. Later, she was interviewed by "Sukea", who she told about her ambition to become Hokage. Later, when Namida and Wasabi began having a falling out because Wasabi wasn't going to continue being a ninja, Sarada was conflicted on how to help. Boruto discretely noted that the Hokage is supposed to help end all quarrels in the village to benefit all, motivating Sarada to help her friends. Sarada then learned that it was Wasabi's parents who made the decision. Convinced by Sarada, Wasabi spoke to her parents and made them allow her to rejoin Namida in becoming ninja together.

In preparation for the Genin Exams, Shino hinted to his class to try stealing the written exams test answers, which Sarada and her friends did, leading to them all passing. The next day, the students are getting set against Academy teachers and Kakashi Hatake during the 24-hour practical portion of the exams. While the teachers would still evaluate the students' respective improvements, their true test was against the Hokage. As the test began, Sarada and Sumire fought Konohamaru Sarutobi and was quickly defeated. Regrouping with the un-captured students, they devised a plan, which she followed to cast Konohamaru under genjutsu in order to fool him into being eliminated. Facing Kakashi while all the students had transformed into copies of Boruto, he repelled them all, leading to them being in positions to restrain him so Boruto could grab his bell. Despite their effort, Kakashi was able to hold them off until the test ended.

Though they didn't get the bell, Kakashi chose to pass everyone as they succeeded in the test's true goal; team-work and loyalty. Afterwards, she was placed on Team 3 with Boruto and Mitsuki under Konohamaru's leadership. Voicing incompatibility with Boruto, the genin sought out the Seventh Hokage to request to be put on another team. While en route, Mirai Sarutobi refused to let them see Naruto, resulting in the shinobi subduing her in order to approach the Kage. Changing her mind, they instead requested their team to have the designation of Team 7, which he granted.

 Genin Mission Arc 

Naruto presented Team 7 their first mission which involved aiding Green Banks against bandits. Upon arriving, the team learned that the bandits were actually ninja, resulting in Konohamaru questioning if they should continue the mission as it was probably too difficult for genin to face trained shinobi. While he discussed the matter with Kiri, the genin witnessed Ashimaru attacking the village, leading to Konohamaru forcing him to retreat. Kiri explained that the shinobi were attacking the village to pressure her into handing them the deed to the village's bridge. During the night, Team 7 noticed several villagers were being controlled by genjutsu before subduing them. Discovering Kiri was abducted during the incident, Team 7 met with the perpetrators to exchange the deed for her. After the exchange occurred, Hidari and Ashimaru decide on killing them all, prompting Konohamaru to task the genin in fleeing with Kiri. Pursued by Ashimaru, the genin engaged the missing-nin and defeated him after Boruto and Mitsuki launched Sarada at the missing-nin in order for her to punch him. Completing the mission, the team returned to Konoha.

 Byakuya Gang Arc 

In the anime, after completing their mission involving apprehending an assailant at the Konoha Bank, the team discovered it had been robbed. Sarada concluded it was done using Ice Release, leading to them going to Katasuke Tōno for assistance. After he revealed that the thief planned to sell the goods, the three genin plotted to intercept the transaction and capture the thief. Approaching the Byakuya Gang member, they try to apprehend the thief, but he managed to flee to a town, prompting the genin to follow. There, the thief justified his actions by revealing he had already sold the stolen jewels to repair the town's water wheel. As he fled, Sarada and Mitsuki began to chase him, but stopped when Boruto became conflicted on the issue.

In order to capture the Byakuya Gang, Team 7 was assigned alongside other genin teams to report and observe the thieves, and depending on the situation track them. After the thieves manipulated villagers into believing the Kaminarimon Company conducted corrupt practices, protesters gathered in front of the company's headquarters, leading to Kōtarō Fūma assigning the same teams to placate the gathering. Taking their position, Boruto noticed Team 10 abandoning their post and followed them, leaving Sarada and Mitsuki by themselves. After being informed that some protesters were being controlled by genjutsu, Sarada released the technique from a villager before Naruto addressed the crowds and quelled the situation.

 Versus Momoshiki Arc 

In the anime, sometime after attending Boruto's birthday party with Sakura, Team 7 was assigned to apprehend four train robbers that were assumed to be hiding out in Mountains' Graveyard abandoned mine. Upon arriving, they learn one of the robbers turned himself in, after he told them his peer were killed by a white monster. Investigating, the team entered the mine, and soon were attacked by a White Zetsu. Forcing it to retreat, Konohamaru wanted the three genin to leave the mine while he confronted the Zetsu, leading to Sarada agreeing with Boruto that it was better for them to face the monster together. Following Konohamaru's strategy, the team managed to kill the White Zetsu. Going further into the Ōtsutsuki clan ruins to investigate, they discovered Sasuke had killed the remaining White Zetsu before they entered. When Konoha shinobi arrived after reporting the situation, the three genin were left out on discussing intel.

After completing a mission involving capturing a bear, the team reported their success to Naruto. Later, Sarada and Mitsuki approached Boruto at Lightning Burger to get him to participate in the Chūnin Exams with them. Refusing at first, Sarada finally convinced him. After Sasuke showed up at her house unannounced, it shocked Sarada and Sakura. Later, after Boruto made a deal with Sasuke involving learning the Rasengan in exchange for becoming his student, Sarada saw Boruto reveal a small Rasengan to Sasuke, leading to him running off after Sasuke commented on its size. Sarada informed her father that its rare Boruto tries like this, leading to Sasuke informing her that he intended on accepting him as his student. For the first stage of the exams, all teams were given a true or false question regarding a book. Guessing the answer and standing on the area to represent their answer, their foothold gives way to reveal a pit beneath them, leading to Sarada catching Mitsuki while he caught Boruto. Having no fallen into the ink at the bottom of the pit, the team passed. During the second stage, Team Konohamaru competed against a Kirigakure team in a game of capture the flag. After Boruto subdued the team, Sarada captured their flag after dispelling the genjutsu protecting it, resulting in the team progressing to the finals.

For the final exam, the remaining participants competed in a series of one-on-one matches in a stadium. In her match, Sarada defeated Tarui with a single punch. While in the manga the tournament was stopped before she could fight Mitsuki in the semi-finals, in the anime, Sarada participated in her semi-final match against Araya instead. As their match commenced, her opponent countered all of Sarada's attacks, leading to her not being able to keep up despite using her Sharingan. After failing to catch Araya in genjutsu, Sarada discovered that she had been facing a puppet, leading to her exposing the puppeteer that was stationed on top of the tournament. Resuming the fight against the puppet, she burnt it using her new technique Sasuke taught her, resulting in her progressing to the finals against Boruto and Shinki. During the match, though teaming up with Boruto against Shinki, he managed to defeat Sarada, before Boruto managed to defeat him. While Sarada happily applauded Boruto for his victory, she became very disappointed by him when learning that he cheated by using the exam-forbidden Kote to win, thus disqualifying him.

When the stadium was attacked by Kinshiki and Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki, Sarada began helping spectators evacuate. As a piece of debris fell towards her, Sasuke saved her. He then took Sarada to Naruto and Boruto, leading to the parents shielding their children. Becoming more dangerous, Naruto instructed Sasuke to flee with the genin. Afterwards, Naruto is captured and taken. Staying beside an unconscious Boruto in the hospital, she informed him when he woke that Naruto was captured, leading to Boruto and Sasuke leaving with the four Kage to rescue him. After they succeeded, Sasuke decided to take advantage his newfound data being analysed by Konoha to spend time with his family, much to Sarada's joy. She insisted that he help her improve her Great Fire Ball Technique, which he happily agreed to. A few days later, Sarada and her team was tasked with capturing the same bear a few days after the attack.

 Sasuke Shinden: The Teacher's Star Pupil 

Sarada appears in this novel.

 Sasuke Retsuden: The Uchiha Descendants and the Heavenly Stardust 

When Sasuke and Sakura both went on a mission to the Land of Redaku, Iruka Umino was trusted to look after Sarada while they were gone. During which, she quickly took to cooking for Iruka.

When her parents returned from their mission, Sarada prepared a feast for them, happy that they both enjoyed it.

 Chōchō Arc 

In the anime, when the lead actors of a popular TV drama, Tomaru and Ashina received a death threat if they continued filming their show, Team 7 and 10 were assigned to protect the actors. Sarada and her team were assigned to watch Ashina, during which she grew concerned about Chōchō when her infatuation for Tomaru made her constantly use her Butterfly Mode. She grew even more annoyed when the Tomaru showed no respect to Chōchō in her real form. Soon after, a Amegakure shinobi began attacking the set, and eventually kidnapped Tomaru, leading to him demanding Ashina to deliver 20 million ryō yo in exchange for Tomaru. While the exchange took place, the genin stood on standby, during which Konohamaru who had earlier defeated the Ame ninja, made the exchange while discussed as the assailant. His actions lead to Ashina being exposed as the culprit behind the kidnapping, causing her to use Explosive Tags which resulted in a landslide. Using wire strings with the other genin, they stopped rocks from falling on Tomaru. Upon Ashina being captured, Team 7's mission was completed.

 Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc 

In the anime, during another Kage Summit in Konoha, Sarada and her team-mates met Ōnoki. After treating the man to a tour around the village, Ōnoki gave the genin the answer to a riddle Naruto once asked on what is the hardest stone. Ōnoki revealed that it was a riddle he once gave to Naruto and that the answer is the core of one's being, that they must keep their core strong to endure all obstacles. Later, all missions were suspended during an investigation of an attack on two gate guards. When Mitsuki failed to show up, Boruto and Sarada asked Konohamaru about it. As it became clear that he was hiding something, the two genin decided to spy on the Seventh Hokage's meeting, during which they learned Mitsuki left the village after attacking Konoha shinobi, as well as Orochimaru being Mitsuki's father. Ultimately, the Hokage's peers deemed Mitsuki as a traitor. While Sarada decided that they must follow orders and stay put, Boruto, who refused to believe his friend was a traitor, noted that Sarada's goal of becoming Hokage is meaningless if she has no loyalty to her friends. The following night, when Boruto found Mitsuki's snake with a recorded message on it, the two decided to go to Orochimaru for answers.

Upon arriving outside Orochimaru's research lab, to lure away the Kononha jōnin stationed there, Sarada transformed into Mitsuki, to act as a distraction while Boruto snuck inside. While successful in luring the shinobi away, Sarada became trapped by the jōnin, leading to Karin rescuing her to Sarada's surprise. Regrouping with Boruto in the lab, Sarada learned that Mitsuki was one of many clones. As Orochimaru was unable to discover clues from the snake, he informed the genin that it's possible to extract information about Mitsuki from the snake's memory if the pair took it to the White Snake Sage, prompting them to travel to Ryūchi Cave. On their way there, their path was blocked by Team 10. Refusing to return to Konoha, they engaged the team in battle. After the pair was subdued, Shikadai realised that the situation had too many inconsistencies to brand Mitsuki a traitor. Wanting to find answers, Shikadai convinced his team-mates to help Boruto and Sarada. Arriving at the cave, the genin gained access after Boruto passed three trails. Inside, the shinobi met the sage, who tasked them with presenting her Garaga's reverse scale in order to unravel the secrets of Mitsuki's snake. During their ordeal, Sasuke's summoning snake Aoda came to Sarada's aid, and after Boruto entered a summoning contract with Garada and presented him to the sage, she showed Mitsuki's snake's memories to the group, which revealed he wasn't a traitor and that he was heading to the Land of Earth. As the group began to approach the Land of Earth's border, Shikadai had Inojin and Chōchō to return to the village to report their findings. As the other genin continued their pursuit, they found a group of Konoha chūnin who were defeated by Kokuyō, who attacked and pressured the shinobi. The three are aided by Inojin and Chōchō, who dealt with Kokuyō while Sarada and Boruto continued on. They were soon intercepted by Sekiei, who noted that Mitsuki was with them willingly. While Boruto fought him, Mitsuki saved Sekiei from an attack before assaulting Boruto into becoming unconscious, which shocked Sarada.

After the foreigners and Mitsuki departed, the Ino-Shika-Chō trio returned to help Boruto. While caring for Boruto, Inojin discovered a miniature and imperfect Akuta that became very found of him. After Boruto awoke, the group agreed to venture on to Iwagakure and retrieve Mitsuki, prompting Boruto to suggest receiving aid from Ōnoki. Upon arriving outside the village, it was decided that Inojin stay outside with the Akuta as to not draw any attention. Inside, they were soon spotted by Akatsuchi. He decided to help the genin as it may be related Kurotsuchi's sudden disappearance. They confronting Ōnoki, the elderly man was happy to see his friends again. Once they revealed their goal of finding Mitsuki however, Ōnoki's attitude turned dark and turned them away. The group was then surrounded by a bunch of Akuta, that were being controlled by Kū, the leader of the conspiracy in Iwagakure as well as Ōnoki's son and working alongside the retired Tsuchikage, much to everyone's horror. As Ōnoki began explaining the nature of his plans and his genuine desire to protect people, realising that with his secret out in the open, he would have to accelerate his plans before the other Great Shinobi Countries learned. While Ōnoki told his son to gently takes the prisoners away, Boruto and the others chose to resist, and a fight ensured. As the battle escalated a massive column was knocked over towards Ōnoki. He was narrowly saved by Boruto, who then retreated while carrying the elderly man. While Shikadai was captured, Sarada and the others scattered to escape. She soon after regrouped at the cave with Inojin and Chōchō, surprised to learn that Boruto hadn't returned yet. They decided to wait and see how things played out.

Deciding that they waited long enough, the group decided to look for their friends. They instead found an injured Akatsuchi. They then noticed an explosion. Realising that it could be their friends, Inojin was chosen to take Akatsuchi back to the cave while Sarada and Chōchō went to investigate. The two kunoichi found Boruto battling Kakō, whose immense physical prowess and Dust Release was overwhelming Boruto. Chōchō and Sarada helped in the battle, desperate to avoid his Dust Release. Ultimately, Sarada found a time limit in the foes attacks and used it to counter. Kakō pushed his body past his limit to continue attacking, which ultimately overtaxed his body and died. Ōnoki, who was watching, was shocked to see how the artificial soldier attacked so recklessly and against his previous orders of not hurting the genin. Boruto insisted that despite the elderly man's belief, the Fabrications did indeed have free-will. Inojin arrived and subdued Boruto, as he was under Kirara's genjutsu. She then appeared with the Akuta and surrounded the Konoha-nin. When returning to the village, Ōnoki was visibly horrified by the hostile takeover of the village. When approaching Kū, the second-in-command voiced his plan to transplant human hearts into the fabrications to sustain them. The elder however refused on the grounds that it went against the purpose of his goal for saving lives. Deciding that Ōnoki was too sentimental to see the bigger picture, Kū usurped the Third Tsuchikage. Before Kū could move forward with his plan, Shikadai appeared, using a diversion to help his friends escape.

As the Ino-Shika-Chō trio decided to face off against Kokuyō, Boruto and Sarada were forced to face Kirara, who voiced her desire to take Sarada's glasses on the grounds they would look prettier on her. Sarada tried to battle back Kirara's genjutsu with her Sharingan, but she was still just as quickly subdued as Boruto by her power. When Sarada attempted to use her Sharingan to override the genjutsu on Boruto, Kirara made him close his eyes. She had them fighting until she received word the transplant hearts were ready, and left them with a final command to fight to the death. Sarada however found an opening, using the sword's reflecting to cast a genjutsu on herself to break free and subsequently freed Boruto as well. They caught up with the fabrications as Mitsuki was about to deliver a transplant for Kū. Mitsuki's attack kept them at a distance and Kū's Earth Release immobilised them. They watched in shock as Mitsuki betrayed and attacked Kū from behind. Mitsuki told them of his actions deceiving the fabrications, revealing the heart as disguised snakes. Team 7 prepared to confront the remaining fabrications. As Kū retreated to treat his wounds and decaying body, Sarada and Boruto went after him while Mitsuki faced Sekiei but the two were cut off by Kirara. She used a massive Akuta to attack Boruto and Sarada. As they were quickly pressured by it, Boruto summoned Garaga, who learning of Mitsuki true loyalty to Boruto decided help him. Sarada confronted Kirara, catching her in a genjutsu and landing a debilitating Lightning Release attack. Soon afterwards, Boruto and Garaga destroyed the Akuta, a piece of which fell on and killed Kirara. Upon regrouping with Mitsuki at the Old City, they were confronted by Kū, who had recently transplanted a human heart into himself, stabilising his body.

As Kū began pressuring the genin with his renewed power, Mitsuki unleashed his Sage Mode to push the fabrication back. While Sarada and Boruto were trapped under rubble, they were saved by the aid of Sekki, who was accompanied by Ōnoki. Having a change of heart after seeing what became of his work, Ōnoki wished to help the genin stop Kū. They brought him to face Kū, who tried to reason again on how far Kū strayed from his original path, ignoring his words, Kū attacked the group with his Dust Release. Sarada saved everyone by breaking through the ground. As Kū caught up to finish the battle, the combined effort of Team 7 managed to seriously damage Kū. Kū attempted a final Dust Release on the group, only for Ōnoki to counter it with a much stronger one, determined to not face his late grandson again without atoning. Ōnoki ultimately destroyed Kū. Afterwards, the genin approached the drained Tsuchikage, who spoke to them about the importance of keeping one's will strong before collapsing. Team 7 was then found by their allies from Konohagakure and they welcomed Mitsuki back.

After returning to home, Sarada was hugged by an angry and relieved Sakura. She and Boruto later had their shinobi status revoked for their technical desertion. She and Boruto then found Mitsuki, who also had his shinobi status revoked. Mitsuki apologised for his recent actions and admitted to the shameless curiosity of wanting to connect with people more like him. Boruto however quickly accepted his apology and admitted he was glad that he got the chance to better understand Mitsuki as a person, hoping to learn more about each other, much to Mitsuki's delight. Later, due to Kurotsuchi's gratitude and recommendation, it was decided to restore the Team 7 genin's shinobi status.

 Jūgo Arc 

In the anime, some time later, Team 7 and Team 15 were led by Konohamaru, Hanabi having had another assignment. They were assigned to investigate the random attacks on village from its nearby wildlife. Tosaka, an ornithologist, was appointed to lend assistance with the birds. Upon arriving, the group was attacked by strange-looking birds. At the village, they learned that many people attacked by the mutated birds quickly became sick and were covered in Cursed Seals. The villagers also found an unconscious Jūgo. Recognising him, Sarada questioned him until one of the sick villagers when on a rampage. Jūgo subdued him, causing the villager's Cursed Seal to disappear, and retreated into the forest. Konohamaru speculated that Orochimaru was involved in this and split the team up to investigate, pairing Sarada and Boruto together. Remembering how the villagers said they heard roars coming from underground, Boruto deduced that there was a hidden cave. Together, he and Sarada found Jūgo, who randomly transformed into his berserk state and attacked them.

Konohamaru intervened, and Sarada attempted to help with explosive tag kunai, but Jūgo just shrugged it off, requiring Mitsuki to pull her out of the way of his attack. After Konohamaru snapped Jūgo out of his blood-lust, Sarada and the others followed him, finding him passed out with an injection device near him. They were attacked by another bird, but Jūgo woke up and cured the bird from its cursed seal. Back at the village, Boruto stopped Sarada from updating the village headman until they had all the information. Sarada was among those tasked by Konohamaru with monitoring Jūgo and finding more of his tranquilliser drug. They observed Jūgo struggling to control his transformation after curing more birds. Jūgo relented in letting them help after the episode. They came across Land of Rivers researchers, but lied saying they didn't have information to share. After Boruto helped Jūgo with another episode, Sarada and the others discussed their lack of progress with the investigation while being spied on by one of the researchers they met earlier.

Over the next couple days, the group continued to work on the birds. Sarada explained Tosaka she convinced Jūgo to medicate regularly instead of only when he felt a transformation coming. Jūgo observed that it dulled him, and that he was starting to build up a tolerance to the drug. Sarada and Boruto looked over the remaining shots and wondered what would happen once they ran out. On the third day, Jūgo underwent a transformation, and Sarada discovered his spare shots had gone missing. Jūgo attacked the village, but was the Land of Rivers researchers subdued him with tranquillisers before he could hurt anyone. They exposed the Konoha shinobi as being aware of Jūgo's identity as the monster, causing the villagers to turn against them. When they mentioned having requested backup, the researchers reveal Wasabi and Namida, unconscious and infected with cursed seals. Sarada asked about Sumire, but they claim to only have found the two. After the genin reluctantly left the village while Tosaka was allowed to remain to help in the investigation, they found Sumire after she was knocked out by Suigetsu. Suigetsu insisted that Nue attacked them first and only acted in self-defence. When learning that the Oto-nin were looking for Jūgo, who left the base without permission, the genin explained that Jūgo was apprehended by the Land of Rivers' researchers. While Karin treated Sumire, she voiced her joy at seeing Sarada again, saying she is dear to her despite them not being related. When Sumire awoke, she explained that two assailants who captured Wasabi Izuno and Namida Suzumeno had special collars that let them harness cursed seals of their own. Realising that this duo was working with the Land of Rivers' researchers, they concluded that the outbreak must have been started by them. While Suigetsu insisted on just assaulting the enemies and take Jūgo back by force, Karin reminded him that such reckless actions could reflect negatively on Orochimaru's already-dubious truce with the world. 

Karin and Sarada acted as diversions to draw out the assailants while their allies infiltrated the enemy base. While initially working, the enemies quickly saw through the ruse and split up, with Sasami going further to face Karin and Sarada while Momo returned to the base. Once transformed, Sasami quickly began making sport of her opponents, treating them as prey. Sarada's Sharingan let her follow Sasami's movements enough to defend. However, as her chakra quickly drained from using her dōjutsu, Sasami managed to land a powerful blow on her. Karin defended Sarada by subduing Sasami with her chakra chains long enough for Sarada to take some of Karin's chakra. This let Sarada deliver a devastating punch that knocked Sasami out and destroyed her cursed seal collar. Karin complimented her skills as Sakura and Sasuke's daughter. On their way back to the village, they changed course as Sarada realised the wild geese were about to start migrating, spreading the cursed seal infection.

Sarada and Karin struggled to keep the infected geese from migrating, requesting Team 15's help when they arrived by the lake. While Jūgo defeated Tosaka and later fought Nue and Boruto, Karin considered the possibility of having to kill the birds to prevent the cursed seal from spreading. She didn't think Sarada could do it, but she took the responsibility onto herself, as she was part of the team assigned to the mission. After Boruto managed to cause Jūgo's transformation to recede, Mitsuki arrived with Konohamaru and Suigetsu, having acquired a serum to remove the infection. Suigetsu consumed it and merged with the lake to rain it over the birds. Sarada chastised Boruto on the recklessness of his plan to snap Jūgo out of his rampage, but he retorted the plan worked. The two wondered what Jūgo would do next.

 Konohamaru's Love Arc 

In the anime, Sarada joined Chōchō and Boruto in seeing a romance movie, which Boruto mistook for being an action movie. Afterwards, Sarada and Chōchō were baffled at Boruto's ignorance in love. Later, after Konohamaru began developing feelings for the noblewoman Remon Yoimura, she and Chōchō pointed out the truth of it to Boruto.

 One-Tail Escort Arc 

In the anime, having some time off with Chōchō, they decided to go on a gourmet tour together. As Boruto whined about not having gotten to train with Sasuke in a while and envying his ability to travel the world, Sarada insisted that there was still much to learn from living in Konohagakure.

 Time Slip Arc 

In the anime, after Sasuke helped in delivering Shukaku safely to the village, he was given some down-time. While Sarada was happy to have her father back, she was dismayed by how little time he spent at home. Later, Boruto came by, hoping to train with Sasuke again. He was also hoping to learn more about Jiraiya, being Naruto's former teacher and mentor. Sarada remembered hearing how he was a famous author and wrote the Icha Icha series. As the book series was an older one, the two decided to go to the flea market in hopes of finding it. When meeting various adults who knew Jiraiya personally, they each openly praised the Sannin, describing his greatness and influence on Naruto, but also each insisted that the two kids were too young to read the adult books.

Later, Sarada joined the other genin in testing out new surveillance equipment designed to follow their location. During the field test, Urashiki Ōtsutsuki was spotted in the area, where Sarada joined several other Konoha-nin in pursuing him. However, this turned out to be division by the alien, who placed a genjutsu on them to let him sneak into the village.

Some time later, after Urashiki was defeated, Sumire officially was transferred to the Scientific Ninja Weapons Team. While everyone was sad to see her go, Sarada had everyone throw a farewell party for the former class rep. During preparations, they met Sumire's replacement for Team 15, Tsubaki Kurogane a samurai student from the Land of Iron.

 Mujina Bandits Arc 

In the anime, while Mitsuki and Boruto infiltrated Hōzuki Castle as prisoners to locate Kokuri, a deserter of the Mujina Bandits for his information of the nefarious group and protect him from the gang's second-in-command, Tsukiyo, Sarada arrived as a guest, under the guise of being a journalism student conducting research on the place. She was shown around by Benga, and later exchanged words with Mujō, the master of the castle, who was in the known of their mission.

Later, Sarada received word from Mitsuki and Boruto that their cell had a spare bed, asking Sarada to have Mujō reassigned Kokuri to their cell. While Mujō agreed to help, his position in the castle was more figure-head than actual authority, as Benga, the chief officer, had final say and declined the request. Realising they needed to pressure Benga somehow, they learned that Benga was secretly taking various bribes from the prisoners for special requests. Sarada found a journal of his dealings and presented it to Mujō. Using this leverage, Mujō had the authority to take full command of the prison, successfully moving Kokuri to Boruto and Mitsuki's cell. Hoping to learn more about the intentions of Mujina Bandit's second-in-command, Tsukiyo, she approached the man's cell, claiming to be reporter. However, Tsukiyo saw through her ruse and asked why she was pretending to be a reporter.

Later, deciding to find out how trustworthy Kokuri really was, they lured him away from prying eyes, where Sarada used genjutsu to make Kokuri see Tsukiyo escape and attack Boruto. "Tsukiyo" demanded to know where they money was, Kokuri confessed that he donated all the stolen money to a medical centre. Realising that Kokuri could be trusted, Sarada and her team promised to safely get Kokuri to Konohagakure. They learned of a supply ship that regularly comes to the prison. Also, knowing they would require a great deal of water to counter the seal on Kokuri, Team 7 sabotaged the water line, knowing it would force the guards to use a backup line that they could gather water from. As they began their plan and Sarada succeeded in diverting water into a tank, she was confronted by Benga, who grew concerned from learning of Sarada talking with Tsukiyo. 

As he corned Sarada, she revealed to have learned a lot about the shady dealings in the prison by Benga. Seeing her as a threat to his newfound position, Benga attacked her with Fire Release. The explosion from a pipeline hit Sarada hard and made her fall into a pit unconscious. When Sarada came to, she was puzzled by the rapidly rising water level. She was saved from drowning by Kedama, who explained how the spring tide worked on the castle, and informed her that Benga had learned of their break out plan. She arrived just in time to save Kokuri and the others by breaking the ground, allowing the spring tide to wash over them. On the outside, Sarada and the others were attacked by Tsukiyo, who was released as a last-ditch effort by Benga.

Using his array of shadow-manipulation techniques, he was able to pressure the genin. As the Konoha-nin began to tire, Kokuri saw through the enemy technique's weakness to light, giving the Konoha-nin the knowledge they needed to overpower and defeat their foe. In a last ditch effort, Tsukiyo grabbed Kokuri and dragged the man with him off the ledge and into the ocean. "Kokuri" then emerged, claiming that Tsukiyo drowned. Soon after, Sai and a group of Konoha-nin appeared, having been mobilised by Naruto after losing contact with Mujō for so long. With Benga killed by Tsukiyo and Mujō having recently recovered to resume his duties, Team 7's mission was completed, taking Kokuri with them to the village and verify his intel on the Mujina Bandits before releasing him.

Several months later, while Team 7 is on a mission to capture the Mujina Bandits, Sarada punches some bandits and she asks them where is their boss. Later, Sarada is annoyed that Boruto is wasting his mission earnings by buying trading cards. A few days later, Sarada and her team were given their first B-rank. While intimidated at first as such missions were normally reserved for at least chūnin, Mitsuki noted that the Fifth Kazekage was known for doing B-rank missions back when he was a genin. Seeing a similarity in this fact to her desire of becoming Hokage, Sarada quickly became excited about it.

Later that night, while practising her marksmanship at home, Boruto arrived, saying that something important came up and he would not be able to join the mission. Realising that Boruto truly felt he needed to do this, she told Boruto to handle his problem while she tells the team, admiring Boruto's newfound sense of responsibility. On the day of the mission, worried about her teammate, Sarada had Mitsuki track Boruto down to help. They arrived in time to save the paralysed Boruto from Shojoji, quickly subduing and defeating the bandit. Later, while applauded for saving Tentō and capturing the Mujina Bandits, Konohamaru also said they would have to be punished for abandoning their official mission. In the anime, Sarada later began taking medical ninjutsu training as it became mandatory that at least one member of team be a medical-nin.

 Kara Actuation Arc 

In the anime, Sarada's team was assigned to work with Mugino to find Anato a missing researched in the Land of Valleys. After meeting the man's wife, Mia, and learning about the village's large medical company, they were able to sneak the last known location of Anato's team. There, they were intercepted by Victor, the company's president, and his guards. As he was also looking for Anato's team, and found many of them were dead, it was decided to join efforts. They soon found a cave. Inside, they found Anato, whose body was altered into a malleable state and mindlessly attacked them.

After the team failed to restrain Anato, Victor and his crew then appeared and subdued him with a relentless barrage of Lightning Release. Victor promised they would return Anato to the village for treatment. With their mission technically completed, the Konoha-nin decided to return to the Konohagakure. Along the way, Mitsuki became ill and his body was taking on the same properties as Anato. Mugino brought them to Yubina, a former medical-nin. Sarada aided her in treating Mitsuki. Yubina determined that during the fight with Anato, Mitsuki was infected by some of the First Hokage's cellular structure. Yubina also revealed that other cases like this have shown up, and rumors that the black market was harvesting the late Hokage's cells for sale. It was decided that while Mitsuki would stay behind to recover, the rest would go the source in the Land of Silence.

There, they learned that a worker from Victor's company came by weeks ago with the Hashirama Cell before suddenly disappearing. They also heard rumours that a man was in the area with connections to the Hashirama Cell. It turned out to be missing-nin named Kirisaki with unique medical ninjutsu prowess. After Boruto lured him away, they were able to detain him. They learned that he was expecting to meet someone about the Hashirama Cell the following day. They decided to impersonate Kirisaki to retrieve the Hashiram Cell. Sarada stayed hidden while using her Sharingan to maintain watch. Once meeting the contact, he was fooled to revealing that the Hashirama Cell was acquired by Lady Sakuya. She desired to use the Hashirama Cell on herself under the misguided delusion that it would let her live forever and even more, restore her youth and former beauty. At the castle, Sarada and Mugino waited outside as a barrier around it prevented infiltration. Soon after, an alarm was sounded. It was revealed that someone had killed Sakuya and framed the Konoha-nin to safely escape with the stolen Hashirama Cell.

Everyone in the city began hunting them down, in hopes of getting a reward for their capture. Upon being cornered, they were aided by a young boy named Katara. He led them through an underground network that the children of the city used for their own society. At the base, the Konoha-nin met up with Mitsuki. After he fully recovered and his antibodies helped cure Kona, she helped Mitsuki sneak into the city. The children's network were able to quickly find the true killers. Once outside the country's borders, the genin split up from Mugino and Konohamaru split find their targets. However, they were quickly attacked by new enemies. The attackers were revealed to be Kumo-nin, consisting of Omoi, Kakui, and Marui. Having heard rumours that Konoha-nin killed Lady Sakuya and stole the Hashirama Cell, they interrogated the genin. Mugino and Konohamaru quickly returned and cleared things up. After explaining the situation, the group worked together to hunt down the true culprits, who were deduced to be shinobi from the Land of Haze. Along the way, they were intercepted by Deepa, who was also looking for the Hashirama Cell. Omoi's team decided to face the new threat while the Konoha-nin moved on. Soon after, Mugino and his team was intercepted by one of the thieves, Yūga, who was determined to complete his mission of delivering the Hashirama Cell to his land at all cost.

He unleashed a self-sacrificing technique to ensnare the Konoha-nin in a barrier and summon a destructive demon. The genin tried to hold off the demon while Mugino and Konohamaru attempted to destroy the barrier, but were quickly stopped by it. Changing tactics, Mugino restrained the demon, letting it absorb his chakra long enough for his team to destroy it. Later, after Mugino recovered enough, the team then resumed tracking the Haze-nin. Upon catching up with the remaining foes, the Konoha-nin were tricked and caught by Hiruga's self-sacrificing technique that produced a restraining sludge. As Sarada realised that the technique would drag all near him underground, Omoi arrived. Battered, he revealed that Deepa killed his allies and was on his way to the Land of Haze to get the Hashirama Cell. Worrying for his remaining brother, Hiruga cancelled his technique and rushed off. While Omoi could not join his allies, he warned them that Deepa was seemingly impervious to all forms of attack. Upon catching up to Hiruga's older brother, Asaka, it took some convincing that Hiruga was truly him and that there was a new threat. Before a truce could be agreed upon, Deepa arrived and swiftly struck down the remaining quadruplets. Boruto was furious and attacked the man, only for his kunai to harmlessly bounce off Deepa's body. The man explained that he is able to manipulate all the carbon is around him, including in his own body to become invulnerable. Victor arrived, and revealed to be allied with Deepa. Victor split up the jōnin from the genin in the team, where Sarada and her team-mates faced Deepa. Sarada's Sharingan proved unable to properly keep up with Deepa's movements, and ultimately, she and Boruto were knocked out. Mitsuki revealed his Sage Transformation to save his friends and escape.

With how severe Sarada and Boruto's injuries were, Mitsuki brought them to Yubina for care, who stabilised their condition. Soon after, Konohamaru and Mugino brought them back to Konohagakure for better care, also bringing Mitsuki to Orochimaru for his treatment. After successfully undergoing an operation, Sarada was left ashamed at her defeat against Deepa. Despite this, three days later, Sarada was able to pick herself back up and committed herself to growing stronger, seeking her father to train her. She asked him to teach her the Chidori, but he refused, explaining the risks associated with the jutsu. Her Sharingan wasn't mature enough, having only one tomoe when two were required to properly perceive enemy counterattacks do to Chidori's linear path. Sarada was disheartened to learn one can't simply train the Sharingan to develop it, which required heightened emotional responses to extreme situations. Instead, he offered her to master her one tomoe Sharingan, requiring her to dodge attacks similar to Deepa's. He counselled her not to focus on all targets at once, and instead focus on the general area of the attacks.

As Sarada began improving in her movements against barrage attacks, Sasuke noted that she was still very limited on how long she could maintain the Sharingan. As he began discussing to focus on improving her stamina, Sarada insisted on strengthening her Sharingan as much as her father. She asked about the Mangekyō Sharingan, having only vague knowledge about it. Concerned about her obtaining such a dangerous power and the tragic requirement to awaken it, Sasuke quickly changed subject. Soon, they were approached by Sakura. She was concerned Sarada was pushing herself too hard after just recovering, and even more horrified to hear her talk about the Mangekyō Sharingan. While Sakura insisted that she shouldn't push herself so recklessly, Sarada was furious to hear her mother baby her without realising why she wanted to get stronger and stormed off.

The following day, as Sarada continued struggling to evade all of Sasuke's barrages, Sakura approached them again. She insisted that just blindly facing the challenge wouldn't yield any results. She took Sarada into a sparing match with her, quickly overwhelming Sarada. Sakura noted Sarada's chakra control was still underdeveloped, quickly burning through it in her various actions and unleashing it randomly when attacking, affecting both her combat performance and development of her Sharingan. Sarada's second problem was that her resolve was still too frail, fearing defeat. Determined to break past her limits, Sarada faced down Sakura again, using her Sharingan to mimic Sakura's movements and general timing for chakra-enhanced strength to improve her own and reach a standstill. As Sakura tearfully criticised Sarada's recklessness, she was proud to see that Sarada's inner strength was like her own, deciding to put Sarada through the same gruelling combat training Tsunade did to her to improve her chakra control, much to Sarada's horror. Later, as Sarada's training under her parents was showing good results, she went to check on Boruto after he was discharged from the hospital following his own training. After they compared each other's growth, they felt it was a good time to return to the Land of Valleys to return Anato's ring to Mia. Having already gained approval to leave from the Seventh Hokage, the two went off.

Upon returning to the Land of Valleys, they met Mia and gave her Anato's ring. They also learned that Victor reported to Mia that Anato was killed by enemies trying to steal their research. Realising that Victor was using Anato for his own gain, Boruto decided to reveal the truth about Victor's goals, despite Sarada's protest. Suddenly, there was an earthquake coming from the company's main building. Sarada and Boruto decided to investigate. There, they found Konohamaru struggling to defend himself from the vicious assault of the recreated God Tree. As they helped him, he explained how the God Tree was not seen since the Fourth Shinobi World War. Victor then approached, explaining that he took fragments of the dead God Tree after the war ended, nurturing them with the Hashirama Cell and the various test subjects. He voiced his joy at how the people of Land of Valleys would be consumed by the God Tree to produce Chakra Fruit. Victor collapsed the ground around Boruto and Sarada, sending them to the floor bellow. There, they were approached by Deepa. Sarada and Boruto were determined to stop him once and for all after all the people he hurt.

Despite their improved skill, and even aided by the return of Mitsuki, Deepa's carbon powers proved as infallible as ever. Sarada however refused to be deterred, her drive allowing both her Sharingan to advance to two tomoe. Her improved reflexes allowed her to better dodge and deflect Deepa's assaults and get in close to attack, but his defensive power was still proved too great. Ultimately, by donating her chakra with Mitsuki's into Boruto, they they were finally able to break through Deepa's defence and defeat him with a Super Compression Rasengan. During which, Orochimaru destroyed the God Tree and defeated Victor. As Mia promised to testify against the company's actions, Team 7 was proud of their victory. Back in the village, Sarada and her friends found Denki setting up an experiment to improve radio communications. Sarada and the others decided to help him with the work. It ultimately worked, but failed to maintain stability. Denki however remained determined to improve the technology. Sarada joined everyone in cheering.

 Ao Arc 

In the anime, Sarada attended the memorial service for the fallen people of the Fourth Shinobi World War. Later, after watching Naruto test out Katasuki's new Scientific Ninja Tool against Boruto at the Training Hall, the Hokage assigned Team Konohamaru's genin to escort Katasuke and the new tool to Ryūben City, followed by testing our their technology. Catching a Thunder Train, the group sat with an acquaintance of Katasuki Ao for the duration of the trip. Arriving at the research institute, they are surprised to see Sumire working there. Having completed the escort, the genin began testing out the facilities Scientific Ninja Tools. Soon afterwards, they are contacted by Naruto who informs them that he's lost contact with Konohamaru and Mugino while they were on a mission near their location, leading to him suspending their current mission in order to search for the two.

Preparing to depart, Katasuki's decides to join them in his prototype battle armour, and Akita Inuzuka has her ninken Chamaru aid them. Arriving at their sensei's last known location, they discovered puppets in front of a crashed blimp. Upon Katasuke setting eyes on a container on the blimp, the puppets activate, leading to Sarada and her team attacking the weapons. Grouping up and becoming pinned by the puppets attacks, Katasuke utilises his suit to absorb their attacks long enough until they overheat. Having disconnected them while they all were immobilised, the four follow Chamaru to Konohamaru's location.

As they begin discussing the situation, Ao confronted, prompting him to attack the group for the knowledge they've learned. Taking cover behind a rock from his Ninjutsu Bullets, Katasuke has one of his suits gauntlets taken, which Ao began using for himself. While contemplating to use the Smoke-Flash Bomb that Akita gave him against Ao in order for them to escape, Mugino sacrificed himself to cause the cave they were in to collapse on himself and Ao. Surviving the attack, Konohamaru has the shinobi retreat before Ao could free himself. Using a scientific tool to heal Konohamaru's injury, the group learn from Katasuke that the technology that was used against them were stolen from him. Afterwards, the team devised a plan to combat Ao.

Beginning a counter attack, Sarada repelled Ao with taijutsu after Konohamaru and Mitsuki distracted him. Using Fire Release to occupy Ao as he absorbed the group's elemental attacks, Boruto attacked Ao, leading to him be disarmed and fooling Ao into using the genin's Chakra Blade against him, resulting in Ao having a significant amount of his chakra drained. Having destroyed Ao's gauntlet, the team began dodging Ao's Mirror Drones attacks, during which Sarada carried an injured Konohamaru to safety. Going to assist Boruto against Ao, Mitsuki pulled her back to avoid being hit by the drone's attacks. After Ao is defeat by Boruto, Sarada looked on as a giant toad crushed Ao, before she questioned who the culprit was. The assailant introduced himself as Koji Kashin, and caught the team in fūinjutsu, during which Konohamaru freed himself and faced the opponent alone. Watching the fight, Koji managed to engulf Konohamaru in flames, which triggered Boruto's Kāma to activate. Absorbing Koji's techniques, the team was freed, leading to Sarada coming to Boruto's aid when he collapsed. Pressing Koji for information regarding Boruto's mark, Mitsuki intervened to stop her, during which Koji retreated.

 Kawaki Arc 

Having departed back to Konoha, Sarada helped Boruto walk, during which the group discovered destroyed puppets in the vicinity of an unconscious boy. As they began to examine him, Kawaki, they discovered that he had a matching seal to Boruto's on his palm. As Boruto's seal began to hurt Kawaki, also felt the pain, making him abruptly wake up and destroy the area within his vicinity. Questioning who the team were, Konohamaru identified himself, and asked for information regarding the crash. Refusing to provide information and wanting to be left alone, Boruto revealed to the boy his mark, resulting in Kawaki believing they were pursuers from Kara. As they tried to correct him, Garō made his presence known, announcing his intentions of recovering Kawaki. Killing his assailant with a blast, Team 7 survived the blast upon Boruto absorbing it with his Kāma. Passing out from his fight, Katasuke determined his body to have been modified into a scientific ninja tool. Ultimately, it was decided to bring Kawaki back to the village to see the Seventh Hokage.

In the anime, while Konohamaru went to report to the Hokage, Sarada and her team first brought Kawaki back to the research institute to be looked after, where the strange boy was detained. Eventually, he was able to escape, prompting the institute into a state of emergency. Team 7 came to the conclusion that the boy would attempt to escape via the train and went to the nearest village. As their effort failed, they heard a disturbance and investigated. They found Kawaki attacking Sumire. The police had also found the boy and engaged him, forcing him to retreat. Boruto looked after Sumire while Mitsuki and Sarada went after Kawaki. As the boy's rampage began causing much collateral damage, Naruto arrived. Having heard from Sumire that the boy was just emotionally scared from his hard past, the Hokage took pity and passively subdued Kawaki.

Later, Sarada went off to enjoy some pastries and discovered Kawaki being watched over by Naruto. Deciding on joining the pair on their errand, it became apparent that Kawaki both had little experience enjoying the simple pleasures of life and was still as on guard as ever his new peaceful environment. While browsing at Yamanaka Flowers, Sarada saw Kawaki having a panic attack and Naruto comforting him afterwards. Having bought a vase, Sarada decided to leave the pair, and told Kawaki that as someone who is aiming on becoming Hokage she can rely on him. The following day, in the anime, Sarada decided to check on Kawaki at Naruto's home, taking Mitsuki along. There, they watched as Naruto began aiding Boruto in taijutsu practice. Midway, Kawaki insisted that Boruto should use his training time to become more familiar to his Kāma, activating his own mark, which resonated with Boruto's to activate as well. As Sarada watched in amazement at such a power boost Boruto gained from using the mark, Sarada decided to train harder to not be left behind her teammate. Later that night, she approached her father, asking Sasuke to train her in using Chidori, which he accepted now that her Sharingan was advanced enough. He began drilling her in the proper execution of the technique, which Sarada continued to struggle with. Much to her annoyance, Sasuke was then called off on another mission. After learning that Kawaki and Boruto fought Delta, Sarada questioned why the pair were so comfortable with each other now. Later, watching the Seventh train Kawaki in ninjutsu with Chōchō, Sarada felt jealous with how he was getting special treatment from the Hokage. After the training, Sarada questioned her teammates and Kawaki if there was any connection between Kāma and the mark on her mother's forehead. Naruto informed her that Sakura's mark was the Strength of a Hundred Seal, which leaded to Mitsuki informing everyone that there was a lot about her jutsu that wasn't understood yet, prompting Sarada to seek out Sakura about it.

Finding Sakura at Yamanaka Flowers with Ino, Sarada asked for information about her mark, and learned it was a jutsu from the Sage of Six Paths era. Afterwards, Sakura asked her to take the flowers she had bought home, leading to Sarada excitingly learning Sasuke was coming home, during which Ino sensed a village intruder. Listening to Ino informing Naruto of them being at his location, Sarada told Sakura she was heading home, but instead decided to go to the Hokage and Kawaki's location as she couldn't sit back and do nothing. Arriving at her destination, she found Kawaki alone and questioned him where Naruto was. Joined by Mitsuki and Boruto, she informed them Naruto was missing, as Shikimaru immobilised Kawaki from moving and has his peers erect a barrier around the Hokage's residence. Learning what had happened and comforting Kawaki, his prosthetic arm began to work, leading to confirming Naruto was alive and forming a portal with Boruto to his location. Intending on going, Shikamaru restrained them all with his shadow, which Kawaki absorbed to allow them to enter the portal.

On the other side, they arrived in a foreign dimension, and found Boro, who told them the pot he was guarding contained Naruto. Engaging him in battle, the team learned that Boro could regenerate his injuries. Watching her peers be immobilised by dark mist, she hurled a boulder at their opponent in order to rescue and retreat with her teammates. Mitsuki shows Sarada a portion of the mist he collected, which Sarada examined with her Sharingan to determine in was a virus. Having collected antibodies from Boro, Mitsuki distributed them amongst the team to be immune to the mist. Agreeing for Sarada to become their leader, Sarada fought Boro alone and pretended to be subdued by his mist, during which she burnt him in order for Boruto and Kawaki destroy the upper portion of his body using their jutsu. Regenerating from the attacks, the battle resumed. Kawaki informed Sarada that Boro's regeneration is due to a large Scientific Ninja Tool somewhere in his body, prompting him to suggest that she used the Sharingan to find it. Determining Boro's been moving the tools location with hand seals, she observes where he moved it to. Unable to voice Boro's secret out-loud, she decided on engaging him with a jutsu that was faster than he could formed hand seals, leading to her striking the tools location with Chidori. Successfully removing the core, Boro's body began mutating with out its stabiliser. Kawaki and Boruto were able to use their Kāma to create a rift in the seal and free the unconscious Naruto. While the kids checked on the Hokage, Boro composed himself enough to turn his rage on the kids. Sarada attempted a Fire Release, but Boro grabbed her and squeezed her. She watched as Boruto's Kāma evolved further, warping Boruto's personality while exhibiting a massive boost in power to effortlessly destroy Boro. Afterwards, Kāma deactivated and Boruto returned to normal, with no memory of what happened, Sarada concerned about the danger posed by Kāma.

After the team returned to Konoha via Boruto and Kawaki's Kāma, they were taken to the hospital to recover. In the anime after Naruto and Sasuke recovered from their own injuries, Team 7 and the Konoha officials discussed the recent events. Sasuke was impressed that his daughter already mastered the Chidori, much to her joy. Sasuke revealed Kara had their own Ten-Tails sealed away in that separate dimension. Kawaki also informed them that each member of Kara was modified with Shinobi-Ware, granting them abilities besides ninjutsu. After the meeting was finished, Sasuke questioned his daughter about the events around Boruto's fighting. Sarada explained that Boruto not only sprouted a horn and manifested a Byakugan in his right eye with his massive increase in power, but even was acting differently. This concerned Sarada, but Sakura told her daughter to rest, to which she agreed. In the anime, Sarada attempted to join the fight against Isshiki when he came to Konoha, but Mitsuki pointed out she was still injured.

 Chūnin Re-Examination Arc 

In the anime, following Isshiki's attack, Naruto decided to host another Chūnin Exam to boost morale and promote more chūnin. Sarada and her team passed the first, written exam without issue. During the second exam, in the Forest of Death, she was able to rescue her injured ally and take them out of the forest within the allotted time limit, while also fending off Mirai as a mock enemy after seeing through her Mitsuki disguise. She was one of 10 genin to pass the second portion, and would have to battle one of the other 9 in a one-on-one battle for the final exam.

The following day, Sarada and her team-mates all agreed to not hold anything back, even against each other, during the battles, and all vowed to perform at their very best to become chūnin. Later that day, Sarada went to her father for guidance, who told her that a shinobi must always be prepared, and shared that despite losing his Rinnegan, he had no regrets over the events, a sentiment that Sarada shared. On her way back, she met up with Chōchō, amazed at her dedication to training. Both became eager to advance together.

The day of the finals, Sarada was concerned by Boruto's and Mitsuki's absence, thinking they might be disqualified. Konohamaru explained that as long as they were present when their names were sorted for the matches, it would be ok. Sarada watched the first two matches from the stands, and was surprised to see Shinki and team-mates. She was dismayed to learn they had already become chūnin. For the third match, Sarada was shocked to be pitted against Chōchō.

As she prepared for the match, Sarada was convinced that she would do what was needed to win. As the match began, Sarada's craftiness quickly began pressuring Chōchō. When one of her attacks hit Chōchō hard, Sarada quickly stopped to check on her. Chōchō found this insulting, pointing out that Sarada wasn't taking this match seriously. Realising her mistake and remembering the words of her father, Sarada agreed to give it everything. The two began clashing with their best techniques, ending with a final flash of their Butterfly Mode and Chidori, respectively. The clash ended with Sarada defeating Chōchō. Chōchō and Sarada thanked each other for a great match. Afterwards, Sarada was delighted to see Sasuke had shown up to watch her match, but she was also annoyed to realise that Boruto and Mitsuki had still not arrived. By the time they arrived, Sarada angrily informed them they had been disqualified for not being present for their match against one another. She watched the final match, between Denki and Tsubaki, and was impressed by the tool he designed, comparing its movement prediction feature to the Sharingan. Boruto and Mitsuki cheered on her when she and the other victors were celebrated. At home, she happily presented her new flak jacket to her parents.

Days later, Sarada felt a lack of closure with Konohamaru no longer being their captain after her promotion, discussing it with Team 7. When Konoha learned that Konohamaru stayed behind as a prisoner during a mission, Team 7 was sent as their mission history allowed them to better coordinate with him. Observing the village as they arrived, they ascertained the hostage situation and Konohamaru's intent, so Boruto distracted Hyōgo and his subordinates long enough for a fog to roll in, allowing them to free the hostages. They joined with Konohamaru, having closure of a final mission together, helped repair the village, and returned to the village, where they took one last photo as a team. She was also officially appointed captain of Team 7.

While training at night, she stumbled upon Kawaki. As he was struggling with the concept of being a shinobi, Sarada made him accept that working with others would help him grow stronger. During a mission to move livestock, the team noticed two suspicious shinobi passing by. With the mission nearly over, Sarada and Boruto left the remainder of it to Mitsuki while they investigated. They found Shikadai and an injured Chōchō, who explained how their mission had developed. Sarada stayed behind to aid Chōchō, and after the mission was over, visited her at this hospital.

 Great Sea Battle of Kirigakure Arc 

In the anime, after Kawaki officially joined Team 7 as a genin, they were assigned to escort Katasuke to a ceremony in Kirigakure, for the unveiling of new advanced power plants. They were also ordered to covertly investigate rumours of a terrorist threat posed to the event. While Boruto split from the group to go visit Kagura, Sarada remained with the team. She became concerned when Boruto had yet to return when they were about to embark an airship to visit the new power plant, but the first one to fly crashed and exploded. Sarada then subsequently tended to Katasuke's wounds after he had been hurt by the airship's destruction. Boruto later revealed to her that the attack was a diversion for a prison breakout. Team 7 procured a boat to go check on Team 5, who were on a mission in an area that was being taken over by the Funato Clan. She was surprised when Kagura joined them, having recruited Buntan Kurosuki, Hebiichigo, and Kyohō Fuefuki.

As they sailed, Sarada continued to distrust the swordsmen, butting heads with Buntan when she wanted to engage in combat to eliminate pirates instead of remaining hidden. Kagura explained they wouldn't try anything, and revealed they had been branded with cursed seals he could activate to blow up their heads. After escaping from Funato pirates when Kawaki's seasickness exposed them, they arrived at Dotō Island, which had been occupied by the Funato Clan. Kagura decided that Sarada and Mitsuki would act as scouts, and Sarada warned Boruto to keep an eye on the swordsmen. They discovered the villagers were being forced into labour. The two eventually met up with Team 5, who explained the situation. Devising a plan, Sarada and Mitsuki rescued the hostages, defeating a few Funato soldiers to conceal their escape. After getting on the ship acquired by Team 5, Sarada helped to keep Funato soldiers from boarding until the ship departed.

On the way back to rendezvous with Kagura and the others, Iwabee alerted them of a massive Chakra Cannon from the enemies' fortress ship. After narrowly dodging the first shot at the ship, everyone was saved by Kagura's team, having turned the Chakra Cannon back on the fortress. After picking up Kagura and the others, Team 5 was horrified to see the members of the New Seven Ninja Swordsmen. Sarada however assured them that they were technically allies now, before they all returned to Kirigakure. The following morning, Taiki was discovered to have been murdered. Suspicion fell on Kyohō, who was found cleaning blood off Kabutowari, and who had recently gone through a rage he had no memory of. He claimed innocence. Sarada partnered with Buntan to search the ship. A witness came forward with damning testimony, but Kawaki noticed inconsistencies in it, and already suspicious of how fast word of the murder had spread, set up a trap by faking Kyohō's death. This exposed Kobasoza, who was chased to the engine room, where he killed himself to damage the ship's engine. Eventually, they were discovered by master shipbuilder, Kajiki. Unable repair the engine, Kajiki instead towed the ship back to his port for proper repairs. During which, Sarada joined Kagura to report back to Kirigakure. On phone, they learned that the situation continued to worsen as more sympathisers joined the Funato Clan, forcing Chōjūrō to join the front-lines. Later, Sarada delivered a message from Kirigakure to Kagura, determining that the swordsmen sentences would only be reduced by 3 years. Sarada expressed support when Kagura intended to appeal on the swordsmen behalf. Team 7 discussed how to proceed given their original mission. At night, the Funato Clan attacked the island. By morning, the attack had been repelled, and everyone joined in investigating it, Sarada learning that Kagura and Denki discovered a coded message where one of the fights took place.

Sarada struggled to decipher the message along them until Iwabee made an origame related comment that inspired Kagura on how to fold the paper, revealing the message. The Funato planned to use the sea battle as a distraction so they could launch a sneak attack on Kirigakure while most of its forces were away. Sarada agreed that as allies, they should help. Kagura took them to his childhood village, which was on the route the Funato forces were taking, hoping to intercept them. Sarada noted a ravine where the Funato would be at a disadvantage, and Buntan suggested destroying two bridges to funnel them there. Sarada was assigned to fortifying the village's defences, and ended up getting along better with Buntan. The next day, as preparations were completed, they received word the Funato had sent scouts ahead. While most villagers were evacuated, three children were missing, one of them with Kawaki's Konoha forehead protector, which you reveal their presence. Kagura left Sarada in charge on the village while he and others went to find the children. Later, Metal revealed that Hebiichigo had deserted the group after Kagura removed the swordsmen's cursed seals. Sarada was apprehensive in letting Buntan and Kyohō go after her, but Kagura trusted them to the task.

As group finished preparing their traps in the ravine, Sarada shared Kawaki's apprehension about the swordsmen's absence. When the Funato arrived, their scouts foiled their traps, having launched a counterattack of their own. Despite the backup from the returning swordsmen, Funamushi's Water Release: Furious Roaring Tornado took advantage of the enclosed terrain to ravage the area. The attack was blocked by Team 5, allowing everyone to retreat to the village, where remaining non-combatants were evacuated, and water sources were blocked to deter Funamushi's jutsu. When the Funato arrived, Sarada partnered with Buntan, both of them using Lightning Release against them. Determined to get revenge for Seiren, Funamushi drained his own men of their blood to use his jutsu, requiring Kagura to channel most of his chakra into Hiramekarei to cut through it. Left weakened, Kagura was taken hostage by Funamushi, forcing everyone to drop their weapons. They watched in shock as he stabbed Kagura through his chest.

Furious at Funamushi, everyone retaliated. While he initially repelled them with his Water Release, Boruto overpowered Funamushi by activating his Kāma and landing a Rasengan, prompting a Funato retreat. Sarada and Iwabee attempted to heal Kagura, but his wound was too severe. Kagura asked them to protect the village as his final request. After his funeral, everyone agreed to take Sarada's lead, and she decided that the best way to honour his wish was to stay in the village instead of pursuing the Funato, who would still return wishing vengeance on them for Seiren. Later, Sarada and Team 7 asked Boruto about his earlier Kāma use, but he assured them he was still in control and had no intention of relying on Momoshiki's power. While recovering from the attack, Iwabee reported to Sarada that the village's food storage had been destroyed. She agreed to Denki's suggestion to forage for food and Mitsuki's to search the area for the Funato with his snakes. When Boruto, Kawaki, and the swordsmen wished to pursue the Funato, she countered that if they all left to search, the village would be vulnerable to attack, and it would allow them to follow up with their Kirigakure ambush. She wants them to follow her orders so no one else dies, honouring Kagura's wish to protect the village. When foraging didn't amount to much, the village had to ration food. The villagers were foregoing eating so the shinobi could be better prepared to defend them, but they chose to let the villagers eat instead. Sarada settled on a plan to hunker down, and allowed Denki and Iwabee to go gather fruit guided by some village children.

After the children returned, telling them that Denki and Iwabee were captured by the Funato, Mitsuki discovered some of them around the village. Sarada took note of their positions, and Buntan advised her not to get so tense before a fight. Sarada was adamant that as captain, it was on her to make sure no one else died. The next day, the surviving Funato attacked again, harder than before. When it began to rain, Funamushi used his Water Release: Raging Jellyfish to cause widespread destruction, with Mitsuki having to pull Sarada out of the way of an attack. Team 7 drew his attention, allowing Hebiichigo to immobilise him with Nuibari. He managed to break free and landed a fatal attack on Hebiichigo, but Boruto was able to defeat him with a Rasengan. He managed to grab Boruto like he did with Kagura, but Buntan killed him before he could kill Boruto. Hebiichigo died, and Sarada felt responsible as captain. After burying her besides Kagura, everyone began rebuilding. Two days later, while searching for Denki and Iwabee with Metal, Team 7 discovered an injured Funato soldier. They brought him back to the village, where Sarada treated him, considering him a potential source of information on Denki and Iwabee, despite the swordsmen and the village being against it. She talked to Boruto at Kagura's and Hebiichigo's graves. The next day, they found Denki and Iwabee, who shared their theory on why Funamushi merely kept them prisoners instead of killing them or using them to negotiate.

That night, Sarada was alerted of an attack and arrived in time to protect Boruto from Kobuna and Gokai's attack. They retreated, and Boruto explained who Kobuna was, causing Sarada to also feel conflicted on how to deal with the Funato. She was shocked to learn that Ikada was a Funato and Seiren's sister. As everyone began struggling to believe this news, they learned on the radio that Ikada was indeed a member of the Funato, having joined his father in an all-out attack on Kirigakure. As Boruto voiced his desire to stop the war and save Ikada from his hatred, Sarada joined Boruto and Mitsuki in heading to Kirigakure to aid the Mizukage, Sarada also wishing to return Hiramekarei. While they were initially stooped by Buntan and Kyohō, who insisted they must face the Funato, Denki and Iwabee fended them off to let Team 7 escape, except for Kawaki, who remained firm that war was inevitable and decided to stay. After an initial struggle to get help sailing, Kajiki agreed to help them get to Chōjūrō, Sarada and Mitsuki holding onto the ship due to the rough waters. Upon meeting up with Chōjūrō, they supported Boruto's request for the end of the conflict, and were surprised when Chōjūrō revealed Isari's attempt at peace and death by his own weapon. Boruto managed to convince Chōjūrō to let them try talking Ikada out of the conflict, so they returned to Kajiki's ship to get to the Funato. Sarada offered to steer the ship, and Boruto asked her and Mitsuki to trust him and cover for him. Team 7 arrived at the main Funato warship, but had their ship destroyed by Ikada. As each of Boruto's appeals were in vain, Sarada assured him he tried more than enough. She pointed out to Ikada they knew how it felt to lose someone they cared about, and that they were also putting those feelings aside to end the conflict. She was shocked when Boruto offered his life to end the war.

Ikada agreed to the terms if his team-mates didn't interfere with his death or sought revenge after it. Sarada and Mitsuki protested it, but Boruto made them promise to honour his choice. They struggled watching Boruto being attacked by the Funato. After Boruto jumped into the water when Kobuna hesitated to push him, Sarada admitted she did hate the Funato for it, but wouldn't seek revenge because she promised Boruto. Impressed by their dedication, Ikada saved Boruto himself, to Sarada's and Mitsuki's relief, and declared the war over. Following the Funato surrender, the Konoha-nin returned home to report. There, they learned from the Mizukage of how the Funato lost much influence in the country. As Boruto asked about Ikada's fate, he and Kawaki got into an argument about whether Ikada deserved punishment. As the two continued to argue their views, they ultimately came to blows against each other. Sarada watched them fight in annoyance, shocked by how calmly Naruto and Mitsuki were about it. After the two collapsed against each other, working off their aggression, the two put aside their differences.

Team 7 was later assigned a mission in investigating attacks on former Wind Release user shinobi. They later discovered Hibiki and Kodama were behind the attacks, looking for a man with a scar on his chest who killed their father.

 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

In the anime, Team 7 taught an Academy class as special instructors for a day. Sarada demonstrated her Fire Release: Great Fireball Technique to the students, and later held an exercise which lead to a dispute between the students that lasted a couple days.

When the Academy held a festival, Sarada and her friends attended it, learning that Kawaki was cast as a slug in a play. In a target booth, Sarada got competitive in trying to win prizes, even using her Sharingan. When the festival received a terrorist threat, Sarada and her friends offered to help, removing explosive tags around the area.

 Labyrinth Game Arc 

In the anime, Sarada was annoyed to learn from her mother that her father was going on a journey with Boruto to get a new messenger hawk. Sakura advised to get used to Sasuke arriving and departing so suddenly, her actual frustration showing through to Sarada when she destroyed a shuriken target.

Sasuke sent her a letter informing her of his split from Boruto, but when he didn't return days later, Sarada and Mitsuki went to investigate. They interviewed Thunder Train employees, discovering that the Department of Prisons was also asking questions, and that an employee working the day of the train's disappearance suddenly quit. While discussing the case, they heard something and discovered money, eventually finding the missing employee, who they followed near a track switch and a tunnel. The employee mentioned them becoming part of someone's experiments before entering the tunnel and triggering explosive tags, which collapsed the tunnel on top of him as she and Mitsuki watched in shock.

Sarada returned to Konoha while Mitsuki stayed behind to continue investigating. She informed Kawaki about the missing passengers who bought tickets to the same Thunder Train to see if anyone suspicious was aboard with Boruto. They discovered five passengers with unclear backgrounds, and comparing it to Konoha's records, also discovered one of them, Kiseru Gankubi, was an Outer of Kara. She explained to Kawaki that their information was likely incomplete, but still important to find Code as they rushed back to join up with Mitsuki, and found him trapped by sealing tags. Sarada wanted to wait for backup, and admonished Kawaki when he triggered a trap for the tags to target him, setting himself on fire to get rid of them. Mitsuki reported that he was attacked by skilled shinobi, and Sarada agreed with Kawaki's decision to go straight to the source.

They found and chased one of those shinobi, but were ambushed by their team. Sarada realised they were Konoha Anbu, and their superior allowed them to share intel. They introduced themselves as part of the Five Great Countries' Joint Investigation Team, who were looking after the recent mass disappearances, and reveal that Kiseru was their undercover agent who had infiltrated Kara, and had been assigned to the mission. Sarada thought that Boruto and Kiseru might be collaborating, but the Anbu point out their obligation not to reveal their identity or mission, and the incredible strain Kiseru must be under.

When the team decided to call off the investigation to think of another strategy, Sarada begged to wait some more time. When Boruto called in through Kiseru's device, he gave them their rough location, every captive released. Sarada yelled at him for wandering off.

 Code's Assault Arc 

Following the defeat of Isshiki Ōtsutsuki, Sarada was saddened to discover her father had lost his Rinnegan during the fight. Also, when Boruto was put indefinitely off activate duty to be monitored for his Kāma, Sarada had mixed feelings on this as it also meant that Team 7 was suspended. She talked with her friends, who were all concerned about Boruto's future. In the anime, proper dosage with Amado's drug halted the Kāma's progression, and they wondered if this would allow them to resume taking missions.

Later, Kawaki joined Team 7 in training drills, who quickly grew annoyed at the basic shinobi training methods. As Sarada insisted that basics were important, Kawaki decided to prove his point by attacking his friends, insisting that extreme combat was the best way. Sarada reluctantly agreed and fought back. As Kawaki proved to be quickly adapting his body modifications to his newfound ninjutsu, his attacks became more aggressive, forcing Boruto to voice his displeasure. Boruto and Kawaki made bet that the winner of the fight would dictate their training style. Ultimately, Boruto won. Kawaki honoured the bet, but still voiced his distaste at Boruto's methods, vowing to himself to get stronger by any means, shocking Sarada with his still-sour attitude.

 Omnipotence Arc 

After Boruto was killed by Kawaki and resurrected through Momoshiki's Kāma, Sarada and Mitsuki checked on him, looking at his scar. Unaware of the truth, Sarada was concerned that his fully Ōtsutsuki body would make him a target for Code to sacrifice to the Ten-Tails. Sasuke arrived, agreeing with her. Later, she and Mitsuki watched as Boruto and Sasuke talked. Sarada felt a mix of shock, relief, and anger over the situation. She wondered if they're undependable, and Mitsuki asked her if she had feelings for Boruto. She insisted her wanting to protect Boruto was independent of feelings, pointing out Mitsuki's own focus on him. She was annoyed that Sasuke spent so much time with Boruto when he was her father first, and the two decide to get stronger to face the Ōtsutsuki, Sarada feeling she wouldn't be fit for Hokage if she didn't.

Team 7 was later asked for their first mission in a long time. Sarada and Mitsuki arrived at Boruto's home, where she was surprised to see him ready, puzzled by his agitated attitude. At the Hokage's office, Shikamaru and Konohamaru briefed them on their current Ōtsutsuki threats, and on what transpired between Amado, Code, and Ada, explaining her entrancing abilities. At various points, Sarada unsuccessfully tried to guess what their mission was, only getting it was a surveillance mission when Konohamaru explained they'd be living with Ada and Daemon. Sarada would watch them from afar along Mitsuki and Konohamaru, also reporting on whether Boruto was still acting as himself.

As the team finished setting up for Ada's arrival, Sarada was visibly unnerved about the situation. As Shikadai, Chōchō, and Inojin arrived to check out the rumours of this beautiful new ally for Konoha, Ada arrived. Sarada and Shikadai were unaffected by her ability, assuming that it was because they didn't clearly see her face. Sarada listened through a comm system as Amado explained the shinjutsu nature of Ada's and Daemon's abilities, becoming offended when he explained that ninjutsu are mere attempts to replicate their effects. Delta arrived, asking permission to see Ada. Sumire arrived and deactivated her, causing Sarada to realise that Ada's entrancing ability was much more dangerous than she realised.

When Ada was frustrated about expressing herself, she asked Sarada and Sumire to join her. When Shikadai attempted to join, he was affected by Ada's entrancing, Sarada deducing that his previous resistance was due to not getting a clear look of her face. Listening to Ada, she thought little of her focus on love. Sumire contacted her through the mind-link, and they realised they were not affected by Ada's ability. Sumire stressed the importance of not letting Ada realise this, as it meant the two of them were able to attack her if necessary. Feigning being affected, she attempted to befriend Ada. A commotion between Boruto and Kawaki drew her attention, and she stressed to Kawaki there should be no infighting during the mission. After Kawaki left, Ada decided to go out as well, asking the girls to join her. They went shopping, Sarada agreeing with Sumire that Ada looked good in everything as she tried different outfits.

When Kawaki was implicated in Naruto's and Hinata's disappearance, after Boruto rushed off after him, Sarada learned from Ada that Kawaki was most likely trying to kill him again. She was shocked to learned Boruto had died without her even knowing, and went after him against Shikamaru's orders. She found Boruto and Kawaki fighting, Kawaki absorbing her Fire Release. She refused to back down, and had to be protected by Boruto, who got his right eye slashed for it. After Momoshiki manifested himself through Boruto to assist in Kawaki's escape, Sarada blamed herself for Boruto's injury, but he only blamed Kawaki. As Mitsuki was furious at Kawaki's for hurting Boruto, he rushed off to kill him. Boruto asked Sarada to go stop Mitsuki. While giving chase, Sarada noticed a flash in the sky. After it disappeared, communication was suddenly searching for Boruto. She followed Mitsuki to find Boruto, and was shocked when Mitsuki was determined to kill Boruto, blaming him for Naruto's disappearance.

As Boruto escaped, everyone was notified that Boruto had apparently killed Naruto. Stunned, she remained in place while Mitsuki continued his pursuit. When Sasuke approached her, she was also distressed by him considering Boruto their target. Sumire contacted her, and the two of them parsed the turn of events, deducing that Ada somehow changed everyone's perception of Boruto and Kawaki, their exemption of it underlining Ada's role in it, similar to their previous immunity to her entrancing. Sarada pleaded with her father to help Boruto. While he initially refused, seeing her awakened Mangekyō Sharingan underlined that something big had happened, and things were not as they appeared. Sumire later caught up with Sarada.

 New Era: Part II 
 Boruto's Return Arc 

Three years after Boruto's and Sasuke's defection, Sarada continued trying to convince Shikamaru, now the Eighth Hokage, to listen to Boruto's side. He still wouldn't listen, and expressed concern for Sarada's future shinobi career. She scoffed at him, pointing out that Naruto, who brought back her father when he was a missing-nin and became Hokage while still a genin, was her role model, not him. She discussed the meeting with Sumire, and the two checked with Ada, who pointed out the risks of every option she had. Sarada and Sumire had to play off being captivated by Ada when she was puzzled by them not being affected by the memory rewrite.

When Code's Claw Grimes attacked the village, Sarada fought them, before being greeted by Code himself. He wanted to attack Boruto's friends to draw him out. He succeeded, as Boruto arrived just in time to protect Sarada. Surprised to see him, Boruto asked her to protect the civilians, promising to talk later. She attacked several grimes with her Fire Release and Lightning Release. Soegi protected her from being bitten by one of them, and she watched as it became a tree with Soegi. As she inspected Soegi, determining that he was still alive, she likened the situation to a failed God Tree.

Later, Sarada interrupted Kawaki's meeting with Shikamaru about Boruto's sudden return and the possibility that he was in league with Code. She insisted that Boruto was only trying to protect the village. Changing the subject, Shikamaru asked about the victims consumed by the Claw Grimes. Sarada theorised that Boruto knew something about it. She also noted that Boruto and Code are enemies to each other, and that Konohagakure should work with Boruto to stop Code.

Later, Sumire approached Sarada with the news that Amado had deduced that his memories were altered, based on recognising his own work on Kawaki's modified body and the Kāma bearing Akebi's data. As they wondered if they could make anyone else realise the truth, Boruto arrived. He reluctantly revealed to Sarada how Sasuke was another victim of the Claw Grimes, but she instead focused on hugging her friend, missing his company. While Sarada felt embarrassed by her sudden emotional outburst, Boruto assured her that he had concealed his chakra signature from the Barrier Team, though admitted that Kawaki was still capable of finding and would soon. He explained how Sasuke was engulfed by a Claw Grime and that somehow, Code's unique chakra from his White Kāma had caused the Claw Grimes to evolve into sentient mini God Trees. Suddenly, Mitsuki arrived, determined to take down Boruto, forcing Boruto to retreat from the village, promising Sarada to save Sasuke.

Alongside Sumire, Sarada received a report of intruders in the village, one of them having Sasuke's chakra signature. Recalling Boruto's account of what happened, she wondered who could it be. Upon arriving, they discovered instead of Sasuke to be Hidari. The man quickly revealed access to Sasuke's techniques, using the Chidori to attack Sarada. With her Sharingan, Sarada narrowly dodged the attack and countered with her own Chidori to injure Hidari, wondering how the foe had access to that technique. 

Sarada offered to heal his wound if he explained who he was. Instead, the God Tree quickly healed himself. As Konohamaru and other shinobi arrived, Hidari slipped into his Claw Marks and subdued Sarada with his Lightning Release. After defeating the other shinobi present, he proceeded to consume Sarada with his Wood Release, only to be thwarted by Boruto's sudden arrival.

While the other Konoha-nin were reluctant, Sarada inisted they work with Boruto. Sarada then asked Boruto about Hidari's connection to Sasuke, who revealed that Hidari was created from Sasuke's chakra. As Hidari retreated into his Claw Marks and unleashed several Claw Grimes, Sarada and the others were forced on the defense as Hidari continued to look for openings to devour Sarada. Upon seemingly succeeded, Hidari was instead caught by Sarada's Chidori Current, paralysing him. She then threw Hidari to Boruto, who perform his Rasengan: "Uzuhiko". With Hidari momentarily downed, Kawaki appeared and obliterated the God Tree. Boruto then discovered Hidari's Thorn Soul Bulb, which he explained can save the devoured Sasuke. Suddenly, Jūra sniped Boruto down with a blast. Wanting to save her father, Sarada rushed to get the bulb, but was struck in the arm by Jūra, who retrieved the bulb and retreating.

As Himawari awoke, as the new Nine-Tails Jinchūriki, she used her powers to heal Sarada. As she intended to do the same for Boruto, the other Konoha-nin first chose to restrain him as a wanted criminal first. Later, Sarada and Sumire confronted Shikamaru about the interrogation of Boruto. They were interrupted by a communication from Kankurō, who reported that the God Trees attacked Sunagakure, resulting in Gaara being sealed away and Shinki being consumed by a Claw Grime. After hearing the specifics of the event, Sarada feared that there would be more God Trees to deal with. Once the phone call ended, Shikamaru instructed Sarada and Sumire to inform him if they make any further contact with Boruto.

 Matsuri and Ryū Arc 

Following Boruto's escape from Konoha's custody, Sarada and Sumire approached Ada for help. She looked into Boruto's past three years to better understand his intentions. Ultimately, Ada merely said that Boruto was keeping to himself. Sarada asked Ada to help find Boruto, but Sumire noted that Boruto had his reasons for keeping away and they should respect that. As Sarada stubbornly insisted they go help him, Sumire countered that Sarada is selfishly disregarding other people's feelings. Sparked by that comment, she also noted how uncomfortable it was for her to watch Sarada embrace Boruto like that while in front of Sumire when Sarada already knew how her friend felt about him. As Sumire excused herself for being rude, Sarada tried to call out to the former class rep. This however upset Sumire further, not liking how Sarada continued to distance herself from Sumire by referring to her with that title. Sumire soon then left Sarada with a frustrated note.

Later, Shikamaru learned that two Human God Trees would appear in the Land of Wind soon from an unknown source. He mobilised Sarada, Mitsuki, and Konohamaru to join up with Yodo and Araya to deal with the threat. Upon meeting up with Yodo and Araya, Yodo noticed how flustered Sarada was, asking if she had a crush on someone, which Sarada denied. They soon discovered Ryū‎‎ and Matsuri. Following Shikamaru's plan to feign befriending the God Trees as Matsuri had feelings for Konohamaru, the team approached the God Trees, pretending not to know who and what they were, telling the two that hunting down Boruto. It was agreed to join with the God Trees to find Boruto. Soon, Konohamaru convinced the God Trees to separate under the pretense of better searching the area, Sarada and the other kids pairing up with Ryū.

As the shinobi claim they have leads on Boruto's whereabouts, Ryū follows them. They meet up with Yodo and Araya, the former who shows noticeable aggression towards Ryū. Mitsuki asks Ryū why the God Trees want Boruto dead so badly. Ryū admits that Jura finds it too troublesome that Boruto knows about the Thornsoul Bulbs. As Sarada suggests that they use a Thornsoul Bulb to lure out Boruto, Ryū agrees and produces his own. Unable to restrain herself in the hopes of free Shinki, Yodo rushes to steal the bulb, only for it to be a fake made of Iron Sand. Having seen through the shinobi's deception, Ryū decides they must be punished. He uses his Iron Sand, which he secretly coated them with, to manipulate their bodies into attacking each other. To Ryū's surprise, Araya frees everyone with his Magnetic Iron Sand Sealing Blade, having developed it with Shinki previously.

With Araya's technique to protect them from Ryū's Iron Sand, the team goes on the offense. As they seemingly pin the God Tree down, Sarada strike the target down with her Chidori, only for him to reveal his ability to transform himself into Iron Sand to escape. Ryū then summons several Claw Grimes to aid him. Sarada attempts to destroy them with her Fire Release, but they overwhelm the team with their sheer numbers. As Araya slashes a Claw Grime, the creature quickly secures the blade in its wound. Ryū then teleports the Claw Grime away, with Araya's sword and leaving the team defenseless.

As Ryū quickly overpowered his foes and captured them, he offered to spare them if they revealed any useful information on Boruto or his accomplice. As Sarada refused to answer, Ryū struck down Yodo. As Yodo was still clinging to life, she pleads with Sarada to stop holding back as Ryū used his sand to force Sarada to finish the job with a kunai. At the last second, Sarada revealed her Mangekyō Sharingan, creating an orb to suck up all the iron sand, freeing everyone. Sarada orders Mitsuki to watch over Araya and Yodo while she combats Ryu. Reflecting on all her indecisiveness and self-doubt, Sarada firmly declared she will become Hokage. As Ryū continued his assault with his iron sand, Sarada's newfound power casually countered Ryū's assaults until finally sucking him into her orb and implode. But, doing this causes her to be exhausted where she is caught by Mitsuki.

Following Mitsuki defeating the remaining Claw Grimes, Konohamaru arrived with Matsuri's Thornsoul Bulb, the Human God Tree defeated by Konohamaru and Boruto. While Araya took Yodo and Ryū's Thornsoul Bulb to Sunagakure, Team 7, carrying a still unconscious Sarada back to the rendezvous point, where they met with Delta. Soon enough, Boruto teleported with Kawaki to the group. With everyone met up and them having obtained Matsuri's Thornsoul Bulb, the group decided to return to Konoha.

Soon after, the bulbs of Matsuri and Ryū were inserted to their respective tree prisons. It freed Moegi and Shinki respectively, and soon after were confimed to make a full recovery. Later, Sarada decided to talk with Sumire, referring to her as such for the first time rather than "Class Rep". She apologised to Sumire about how inconsiderate she was to Sumire's feelings. Likewise, she openly admitted that she too has come to have deep feelings for Boruto. Ultimately, the two friends agreed to a civil rivalry for Boruto's affection.

 Mamushi Arc 

Sarada and Sumire later talked with Ada, who asked how they intend to approach Boruto about their feelings for him. After the two say they can't tell him such with all the struggles he is currently enduring, Ada broaches her previous question about their affection towards her. Noticing how they are focused more on their feelings towards someone besides her, especially when she is in their current presence, she doubts their "genuine" attraction to her. As Sarada activates her Mangekyō Sharingan, Daemon acts swiftly, grabbing Sarada and Sumire by the neck.

Ultimately, he let them go, proclaiming he only wanted to prove how easy it would be for him to kill them. Ada returned focus to the subject at hand. She had concluded that Sarada and Sumire didn't break free from her allure, nor were they ever affected by it. She also concluded that the reason behind this was because Ada had subconsciously made it so, wanting have friends who liked her on their own. To which, she truly believed that over the past years, Sarada and Sumire had become her genuine friends with no real desire to hurt her. Sarada and Sumire were moved by this, hugging Ada to affirm their genuine friendship. Afterwards, Sumire decided to head back to the lab. Sarada offered to join her, but a clingy Ada refused to let Sarada leave before talking about more things.

Days later, Shikamaru contacted Sarada, along with a several other Konoha-nin who accepted Boruto as an ally through Inojin's Mind Body Transmission Formation for a secret joint mission to deal with Mamushi who had come to the village for Ada. The Eighth Hokage explained the situation and the nature of the Human God Tree's Division ability. Sarada offered to rush off to confront Mamushi, but Shikamaru insisted that she stay to protect Ada because of the unclear numbers of Mamushi would attack with. Quickly, she joined Delta in facing off against the new threat. Using Ōhirume repeatedly, she managed to swiftly kill most Mamushi, but the effort also overtaxed her eyes as they began to bleed and blur. Ultimately, as the Mamushis began to multiply into the hundreds, Shikamaru decided to go with his backup plan: Let Mamushi find Ada. Knowing that the Mamushis, with their reduced intelligence, would all join up to get Ada, the Konoha team could work with Daemon to finish off all the Divisions.

As the Mamushis were brought to Ada, who flew off to draw them all together, Shikamaru asked about Sarada's Ōhirume, who confidently said she could take down 50 with it. Ultimately, as Daemon and the Konoha team began their counterattack, they soon got the hundreds of Mamushis down to under 50. Sarada made her finishing move, but it failed as Sarada fainted from overusing her Mangekyō Sharingan. The remaining Mamushis, now filled with survival instinct, multiplied into the thousands.

As the Mamushis continued their relentless pursuit of Ada, Himawari healed Sarada's eyes while Konohmaru looked after them. Then, Injoin was summoned to the field. With it deduced that the Divisions shared a hive mind, Inojin transferred his mind into a Mamushi, subsequently taking control of all the Mamushis. He directed killing intent on Daemon so he would reflect it back on the Mamushis and destroy their eyes, the only means for Mamushi to continue dividing. Following this, all the Mamushis collapsed and disintegrated. This also produced Mamushi's Thornsoul Bulb.

Soon afterwards, Sarada was brought to the hospital. Upon awaking, Sakura confirmed that Sarada's vision had indeed deteriorated from her excessive use of the Mangekyō Sharingan and would need stronger glasses to compensate. As Sarada frowned, still believing she needed to continue this path, Sakura voiced her support for Sarada, seeing much of herself in her daughter. After Sakura left, Sarada talked with Sumire and Chō-Cho about Boruto, all agreeing that Boruto can be trusted. 

 In Other Media 
 Video Games 

 Trivia 
  shares her name with Sarada Devi; wife and spiritual counterpart of 19th century Indian mystic Ramakrishna.
 According to character trivia from Boruto: Naruto Next Generations:
 Sarada's hobby is reading (history and mystery).
 Her favourite foods are things that are based on black tea flavours. Her least favourite food are tomatoes, ironically one of her father's favourites.
 Her attributes are: 160 in strength and negotiation, 150 in chakra, 145 in intelligence, 140 in perception, and 130 in dexterity.
 She was also given a skill rating in these particular areas:
 Marksmanship: ★★★★☆
 Genjutsu: ★★★★☆
 Knowledge of Ninjutsu: ★★★★☆
 School Trip Bloodwind Records and The Last Day at the Ninja Academy! further elaborated on this concept, and included the following skill ratings:
 Observation: ★★★★☆
 Manners: ★★★☆☆
 Unarmed Hand-to-hand Fighting: ★★★☆☆
 Espionage: ★★★★☆
 Mental Resistance: ★★★☆☆
 Scientific Knowledge: ★★★☆☆
 Sarada's Mangekyō Sharingan design was teased in a piece of artwork shown in the first volume  of Boruto: Naruto Next Generations, which was released 7 years prior to her Mangekyō Sharingan's debut in the manga.
 Sarada's Mangekyō Sharingan, "Ōhirume" (大日孁) means "great day woman" or "great woman of the sun". It is one of the names of the sun goddess Amaterasu (大日孁貴神 (ōhirume no muchi no kami/The Great God of the Sun) in Japanese mythology. The word can also be interpreted as "great spirit woman" or "wife of the sun."  Ō (大): Meaning "great" or "large", Hiru (日): Meaning "sun" or "day", Me (孁): Meaning "woman" or "lady".
 While her father Sasuke and her late Uncle, Itachi have an ability to control Amaterasu's flames, Sarada's ability seems to represent a blackhole which is in contrast to her eye that is a bright star.
 Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Sarada show that she was 125cm at the time of Naruto's inauguration.
 In the anime, Sarada was promoted to chūnin at the end of a retaking of the Chūnin Exams that were interrupted by the Ōtsutsuki invasion, while in the manga, she is still a genin three years after Boruto's defection from Konoha.
 Sarada's birthday was originally given as March 31st in a calendar that came with issue 6-7 of Weekly Shōnen Jump in 2019, alongside other characters. Official Naruto twitter accounts have since tweeted celebrating her birthday. In its February 20, 2024 issue, V Jump published a Boruto Database article listing her birthday as March 29th; on February 26 they posted a correction on their official website indicating that her correct birthday is March 31st.https://vjump.shueisha.co.jp/news/n10_20240226_01/ 
 Sarada is also noted to be a skilled cook.

 Quotes 
 (To her mother about Boruto) "Mama… some boys are sooo… stupid. Well, he is… kinda similar to me in some ways too… When it comes to dads… we're both totally Shannarō!"Naruto chapter 700, page 18
 (To Boruto about bento made by his mother) "Besides… a boxed lunch isn't just about food, right? When you know how special the person who made it for you is…"Naruto chapter 700+3, page 6
 (To her father) "Did… something happen… you ask?! …You haven't been there for us at all!! Why won't you stay and live with Mom?! Do you even care that you've forgotten your daughter's face?! And who is this lady next to you with the glasses?! Do you think this is something a daughter can ask her Mom? Mom doesn't say anything, and you were never around! I don't even know if I can believe you two anymore! Problems?!! We've got a lot of them!!! What… what actually have you been doing and where were you all this time?!" 
 (To Naruto after believing Karin is her biological mother) "Why do I have to go rescue someone who's not my mom?! You guys have deceived me all my life! Go to hell!"
 (To Naruto) "This has nothing to do with you, Seventh! I'm gonna continue on my journey all alone. I don't think I'll be returning to the village… well then, thanks for everything…!"
 (To her mother) "As long as we love each other… and our feelings are connected."
 (To Boruto) "It's not like I could deliver lunches to everyone in the whole village, so… instead, I've decided to become Hokage!"
 (To Boruto) "I plan on becoming Hokage by choosing a different path than my dad!"