Title: Sazanami
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Sazanami
-----------------------

, formerly known as , is a former bladesmith turned bounty hunter.

 Background 
Tokichi was born and lived in a tiny village settled in an unknown small country between two large countries, where he was a bladesmith by trade living on poverty. During a festival night, however, Tokichi was on an errand to deliver a custom made sword for a customer before he met and clashed with the criminal Gosunkugi, after having killed his client and their family of three. It was there that the villagers mistook Tokichi as the murderer instead and had him arrested on the spot; causing him to escape captivity and flee his village with a bounty of a million ryō placed on his head.

At one point while on the run, Tokichi identified Gosunkugi's own bounty of three million ryō to which he immediately resolve to have his name cleared by capturing the man who framed him. Thus he became a freelancing bounty hunter and changed his identity to Sazanami to hide his wanted background.

 Appearance 
Sazanami is a tall, muscular man with two scars on his left cheek, one long scar on the right side of his face, stubble on his chin, a bird shaped birthmark on his chest, and shoulder-length unkempt dark grey hair. He wears a light blue kimono, with a torn-sleeved shirt over it, and a straw hat.

 Abilities 
As a former bladesmith, Sazanami is skilled in forging quality blades, including one with a custom made hilt that he became proficient at wielding. In his quest to clear his name and working as a bounty hunter, Sazanami developed considerable kenjutsu skills with a sword of his own calibre, able to effortlessly take down three experienced genin from Konohagakure. His strikes in utilising Iaidō are proven strong enough to cutting Michizō Manaka's own blade and fast enough to keep a ninja from performing hand seals.

 Part I 
 Gosunkugi Capture Mission 

Sazanami meets Naruto Uzumaki, Kiba Inuzuka, and Hinata Hyūga in their search for Gosunkugi. When Naruto provokes a man at a bar, Sazanami saves them by knocking the foe unconscious with amazing speed, leaving the three young ninja in awe. After this, he allows the bar-keep to keep the bounty placed on the attacker as compensation for the damage Naruto caused, but is followed by the gang outside who tell him of their mission and their origin, Konoha.

Learning this, he tried to put the three to sleep because he wanted to defeat Gosunkugi himself. He then went out by himself in search for Gosunkugi. The wanted thief appears to be a shinobi as well, and he ends up getting severely hurt from his attack. Fortunately, Naruto and his team came just in time to scare Gosunkugi and his men away. However, Sazanami is badly injured. While Naruto and the others were taking care of him and tending his wounds in a small cabin, another bounty hunter called Gatsu breaks into the place. He tried to get Sazanami but failed because Naruto and the others were protecting him. Upon leaving, he accidentally drops a wanted poster. Strangely, they note that the person on the poster's name is Tokichi and has the same bird mark that Sazanami has.

They soon find out about his terrible past, including the role Gosunkugi had in framing him for the murder he was innocent of. Despite being in injured condition, Sazanami would aid the genin in their fight against Gosunkugi and help defeat him, only for the two to be captured by Gatsu and for Sazanami to be swiftly brought back to the village to answer for his crime. Instead, Gatsu and the bureaucrat revealed to the villagers of Gosunkugi's confession and Tokichi is proved innocent. To which, the villagers apologized for their rash judgment of him and he was allowed to return to his village as intended.

 Trivia 
  means "ripples".
 A man resembling Sazanami appears in Naruto episode 193 as a competitor in a dōjō match in Rock Lee's flashback.
 One of the bandits in Naruto: Shippūden episode #195 resemble Sazanami.

 Quotes 
 (To Naruto) "Just you and me, son. We gonna do this the easy way, or the hard way?"
 (To Naruto, Hinata, and Kiba) "This is the end of the line. You kids are gonna die out here."