Title: Shamo
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Shamo
-----------------------

is a young shinobi from Iwagakure.

 Background 
Growing up in Iwagakure, Shamo was raised by his grandmother. He had a tendency to cause her lots of stress.

 Personality 

Shamo is a friendly and approachable young man, offering to help Boruto with a jammed window when they first met, and assuring him everything was fine despite hurting himself. Despite being a shinobi, he is easily scared, readily asking for help during Ōga's experiments. He is also gullible, easily swayed by a pretty girl, eager to earn her affection. He openly admits that he does not have the makings of a hero, but at least hopes to be of good support. His greatest desire is to make his grandmother proud of him, keeping a photo of her with him. He is a bit careless, readily flipping a switch in one of Ōga's experiments after assuming its function, and later freely revealing his valuable card in another.

 Appearance 
Shamo has short brown hair, with a spiky tuff in the front, dark green eyes, three freckles on each cheek. He wears a dark red vest over a white long-sleeved shirt, and a small red bandanna around his neck. He also wears dark red shorts with a shuriken holster on his right leg, black sandals, and a red elastic Iwa forehead protector.

 Abilities 

Shamo can use Earth Release to produce large walls and spikes. He can also creates wave of earth for defensive purposes. He is also strong enough to carry someone a bit taller than himself.

 New Era 
 Labyrinth Game Arc 

Shamo first met Boruto on the Thunder Train, and offered to help Boruto open his jammed window, but failed and hurt his hand in the process, assuring Boruto that he was okay, and promptly returned to his seat. Shamo and all the other passengers fell asleep and they found themselves in a secluded room once they regained consciousness. Shamo attempted to talk Kiseru into conserving his strength after failing to break out, and ended up accidentally hit. Ōga revealed himself and proceeded to conduct his experiments. During the first one, Shamo almost fell to his death from the unsteady platform they were put in, having to be saved by Boruto twice. Shamo helped a girl with a twisted ankle to the ladder.

When Ōga sent them on the next experiment, he gave them candles that were symbolised their lives, them dying if the flames went out. When he explained their rules, Shamo asked if it was safe for them to let someone else hold their candle, Ōga clarifying that they wouldn't die unless the candle went out in someone else's hand. While going though a water-filled area, Shamo carried a girl on his arms, acting chivalrous. In the next room, he along the other shinobi helped protect the non-shinobi from a dust storm while they protected the entire group's candles. Shamo tried using an earth wall at first, but his exhaustion left it weak, so he just shielded them with his own body. He went own ahead with the girl he liked, but she abandoned him after he helped her up a wall. The rest of the group came across him as they caught up, and near the end, he was dismayed when the girl he liked had attached herself to Rokuro. They had to take a slow-moving elevator, and realised that their candles wouldn't last the entire ascent, Ōga intending them to steal each other's candles. Boruto exploited the exact wording of Ōga's rules to make one long candle with the remains of everyone else's, shared by all, so they all survived the ride, clearing the experiment.

Before the next experiment, the group discussed their dreams, Shamo's being to make his grandmother happy. When the experiment began, he was agitated by Namua's discovery of bloodstains on the floor, which in turn annoyed Kiseru. He pressed a switch expecting it to be a light, but triggered the ceiling to start coming down at everyone. He and Boruto pressed other switches, most of them making the room more dangerous, until only ceiling spikes remained. The last switch revealed alcoves where they would be safe, but Fugō overtook Shamo in getting into one. When Boruto discovered a hidden space under the floor, Shamo aided by raising an earth wall to try holding the ceiling back. After Boruto convinced Batta to help, she discovered a weak spot on the floor, allowing Boruto's Rasengan to break through, the extra space ensuring no one died.

Shamo was among those who noted that Batta and Boruto were taking a long time to return, and wondered if they were plotting. By the time they returned, the "Calculation" experiment had been picked, Shamo picking cards for Boruto and Batta. Each person got a card with a number from 1 to 8, and them had to sum 7 to cross a gate within two hours. Shamo celebrated getting the 8 card, and was admonished for his carelessness when showing upon meeting Boruto. They met up with Namua and Yatsume, who had figured out how to maximise the number of people passing the experiment. Shamo suggested turning Boruto's 6 into 9, but his idea was dismissed. They found Batta and Fugō's corpses, and Rokuro reached them soon afterwards, having decided to kill everyone to reach Ōga's goal early. He took Shamo hostage, who tried giving him his 8, but Boruto's attack allowed him to escape, and he realised that the four of them could pass if they claimed Rokuro's cards. After Rokuro was defeated, and Boruto still gave him enough cards to survive, he revealed that Batta and Fugō were already dead when he claimed their cards, so Boruto shared with them Batta's suspicion of Kiseru. Shamo and Yatsume helped Namua, who was injured fighting Rokuro, through the gate, while Boruto stayed behind to confront Kiseru.

Shamo discussed Naruto's leading attitude with Yatsume, and went ahead looking for first aid kits when Namua couldn't walk anymore. He informed Rokuro on the possibility of Kiseru working for Ōga, who instead suggested looking for Kiseru to force him to reveal the way out. Namua held the closing gate open, and they the others were able to reach Boruto and Kiseru. Kiseru escaped underground and attacked them, Shamo protecting Yatsume from falling debris. Kiseru later attacked directly, focusing on Yatsume. Shamo forced Kiseru's retreat with his Earth Release, and recovered a scroll he dropped, detailing the truth of Kiseru's mission to investigate the disappearances. He rushed to stop Kiseru and Boruto from fighting, and was hit by Kiseru's attack before informing Boruto of Kiseru's allegiance.

Everything turned out to be an elaborate plot carried out under genjutsu while everyone was in suspended animation. When Boruto refused to give up on Yatsume, who was the real Ōga, she woke up from the genjutsu on her own and freed everyone. Shamo found a letter addressed to Boruto and delivered it to him. Boruto only told him it was from Ōga, and refused to share the rest of it, teasing Shamo about it.

 Trivia 
 "Shamo"(軍鶏) means "gamecock".