Title: Shamon
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Shamon
-----------------------

was the  of Sunagakure. He was the first to research the jinchūriki in an attempt to enhance the power of the village.Third Databook, page 64

 Background 

Shamon accompanied the First Kazekage to the first ever Five Kage Summit. There, he listened on as the meeting proceeded and later to the other allied villages, as well as Hashirama Senju's plea for cooperation between the five hidden villages.Naruto chapter 648, pages 6-12

Upon Reto being assassinated, Shamon succeeded him and became Kazekage. During his reign, he focused all his efforts on strengthening Suna's military power through the use of puppets as a replacement for shinobi. Shamon took advantage of the surrounding desert terrain and the village's development of new ninjutsu, and developed a way for shinobi to fight with multiple partners. Shamon also researched the Tailed Beasts with the intent of controlling Shukaku. As a result of his military expansion, Sunagakure achieved ground breaking advancement. Shamon would later be killed at the hands of assassins, a fate that many people considered to stem from the lineage of the Kazekage being cursed.

 Personality 
Shamon is described as a shinobi who desired improvement.

 Appearance 

Shamon was a seemingly bald man though he had locks of brown hair at the back of his head. His most distinctive feature was an intricate green dragon-shaped tattoo which was tattooed around the top head, with a black claw covering his right eye. His attire consisted of a dark-coloured kimono held close by a light-coloured sash over which he wore a plain, long-sleeved haori.

At the time of his death, he had aged slightly, gaining visible frown lines at the corners of his mouth.

 Abilities 
Aside from the fact that he deployed puppets during battle, very little is known of his skill with them and any other skills he possessed. However, the fact that he was appointed the Second Kazekage indicates he was undoubtedly a powerful shinobi. Even before becoming a Kage, he was presumably skilled enough to accompany the First to the Summit of the Kage. Shamon was apparently a very knowledgeable and tactical shinobi, as he was the first Sunagakure shinobi to do research on the jinchūriki.

 Part II 
 Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes 

Subsequent to Kaguya Ōtsutsuki being sealed by Naruto Uzumaki and Sasuke Uchiha, he and the other deceased Kage were summoned from the Pure Land by Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki to aid him and the Hokage in summoning Team 7, the tailed beasts and Madara Uchiha from Kaguya's dimension. Later, his and the other Kage's souls were returned to the Pure Land.

 Trivia 
  is the Japanese word for Śramaṇa, a religious movement that gave rise to Buddhism and Jainism.