Title: Shibire
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Shibire
-----------------------

is a genin from Konohagakure.

 Personality 
Shibire seems to be curious as seen when he wanted to know what was inside the stage two Chūnin Exams scroll. He also seems to lose hope quite quickly.

 Appearance 
Shibire has spiky sandy brown hair and very thick sideburns. He wears a black jumpsuit with a zipper running down the middle and a light-coloured collar. He also wore a Konoha forehead protector and his shuriken holster strapped to his right leg.

 Part I 
 Chūnin Exams 

He and the rest of his team made it to the second phase of the Chūnin Exams. When they started to lose hope in completing the round, he and Minoji decided to read their scroll, leaving them knocked out and unable to complete the exams.

 Konoha Crush 
In the anime, he attends the Third Hokage's funeral.

 Interlude 
 In Naruto's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths 

In the anime, about two years later, Shibire and his teammates partake in the joint Chūnin Exams held by Sunagakure and Konohagakure. For the first phase of the exams, he and his teammates are split into different rooms, with him being placed in room 1. After settling in, Shikamaru Nara as the first exam proctor explained that every member of the respective teams only needs to answer one single question on the test. However, their combined score with their teammates will determine if they pass or fail the exam, since they need exactly 100 points to pass — every higher or lower score leads to disqualification. Unclear how to solve the problem, Shibire and the other genin in his room begin calling out to their comrades in the other rooms.Naruto: Shippūden episode 396

Following the conclusion of the three question choice test, a bonus question was given by the proctor, asking to which teammate you would leave as a decoy, and the team's answer had to be unanimous. His team managed to qualify for the second round since they left the answer blank, proving to be the right choice since a full team is needed for the second round. However, a preliminary round had to be issued to lessen the many participants there were. The preliminary round involved a race to Suna where only the first 30 teams to arrive at the destination would qualify for the second phase.Naruto: Shippūden episode 397 Unfortunately, his team didn't make the cut and thus they were disqualified.Naruto: Shippūden episode 398

 Trivia 
  means "numbness".