Title: Shibai Ōtsutsuki
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Shibai_Ōtsutsuki
-----------------------

was considered a god of the Ōtsutsuki clan.

 Background 
Over several millennia, Shibai repeatedly resurrected himself using Kāma, during which he ate many Chakra Fruits. He was ultimately deemed to have evolved into godhood, with his abilities being labelled as divine miracles.Boruto chapter 75, page 11-12

 Personality 
In his pursuit of power, Shibai sacrificed countless worlds, implying his indifference to the countless sacrificed living beings so the Chakra Fruits would come to fruition.

 Appearance 
Shibai appeared to have been a slim man with long flowing hair reaching his lower back and wore black, tattered robes. His horns curved upward like a crown above his head. He had a Byakugan in his right eye and a Rinnegan which opened vertically on his forehead, similar to Momoshiki after he consumed Kinshiki's existence, and Kaguya after she consumed Chakra Fruit.

 Abilities 

Upon reaching his apparent godhood, Shibai's techniques were dubbed "Shinjutsu". His incredible abilities that were achieved without hand seals were said to be able to generate storms with a wave of his hand, as well as calling forth thunder bolts with a roar.Boruto chapter 75, page 11 He had access to various remarkable abilities, including seeing through time, producing black bands to instantly travel long distances through, and automatic reflection of all harm to himself.Boruto chapter 75, page 7 He could also use the power of Omnipotence to make anything he desired a reality.

 Legacy 
After several cycles of evolution, Shibai was hypothesised by Amado to have ascended to a higher dimension level and deliberately discarded his body, something Momoshiki privately confirmed to Boruto.Boruto chapter 75, page 35 Sometime later, Amado ended up in possession of Shibai's physical remains, and transplanted his DNA into the members of Kara to give them some of Shibai's Shinjutsu abilities. However, the awakening of one or more Shinjutsu was up to luck, only Code, Ada, and Daemon manifested any Shinjutsu, while Koji Kashin manifested his after having a near-death experience against Isshiki Ōtsutsuki.

 Trivia 
 The name "Shibai" is a notable resemblance to Shiva, a major god in Hinduism. Like Shibai, depicted as a powerful, god-like figure transcending dimensions, Shiva is worshiped as the Supreme Celestial Lord with cosmic powers of creation, preservation, and destruction (transformation). The Japanese language often approximates the "v" sound with a "b," making the phonetics similar. Lord Shiva is also revered within Japanese Buddhism, though typically under different names.
 Written as "芝居", "shibai" means "drama (for the theatre)".