Title: Shigure
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Shigure
-----------------------

was a genin from Amegakure and the leader of Team Shigure.

 Personality 
He has been described as arrogant, presumptuous, and active. A prime example of his arrogance was his extreme underestimation of Gaara's skills, believing that Gaara was no match for him. He also seemed to hold a deep respect for his village as seen when Gaara talked down to Amegakure. He became angry at Gaara's remarks but was able to stay calm and collected until an actual battle broke out and lunged at Gaara.

 Appearance 
Shigure had short spiky brown hair with a strip of gauze covering his forehead and his mouth partly stitched on the right side. He also had two scars running up his cheek, one of which had blinded his right eye, causing him to constantly keep it closed. He carried an oxygen tank and a sheath for his umbrellas on his back.Naruto episode 21 

 Abilities 
According to Akamaru's reaction, he had very strong chakra.Naruto chapter 58, page 10 He could use his umbrellas to shoot senbon from above to kill his enemy. The senbon are controlled by Shigure's chakra, leaving no place to escape the technique.Naruto chapter 58, page 17 He had used that ability many times to make it literally rain blood even though he was just a genin, and Ame had high hopes that he would pass the Chūnin Exams.Naruto: One Decade, One Hundred Ninja, page 70 He also seems to be confident in close-range combat, as he rushed towards Gaara in a final attempt to bring him down.Naruto chapter 59, page 4

 Part I 
 Chūnin Exams 

Having passed the first stage of the Chūnin Exams, Shigure proceeded onto the second phase. Soon after the exam began, Shigure and his team confronted the Three Sand Siblings. Shigure sought Gaara's scroll and underestimated his power. Shigure attempted to use his Senbon Shower technique but Gaara's sand protected him. Gaara then took the opportunity to confine Shigure and his team using the Sand Binding Coffin. Gaara then crushed the Ame genin, killing them.

 In Other Media 
 Video Games 
In Naruto Mobile, Shigure is a constant rival of the main characters.

 Trivia 

 Shigure was originally designed as a large, heavyset man with a moustache. Masashi Kishimoto suspected he would need to change the design, but stuck with until his editors forced him to, claiming the first draft of Shigure "didn't make the reader's heart throb".Rin no Sho, page 242
  means "drizzle" and can also refer to the frequent showers in late autumn or early winter.
 Shigure and one of his teammates appear in Naruto: Shippūden episode 183 alongside several other notable characters.