Title: Shiin
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Shiin
-----------------------

was the leader of a group of bandits originating from the Land of Rice Fields.

 Background 
Shiin was the leader of a group of shinobi who, though small in size, were well-known in the Land of Sound due to their strong will and determination. Around the time of Otogakure's conception, the majority of his clan's skilled members defected to the village, and the country's daimyō began hiring them less and less. Needing a way to provide for his men, Shiin set his eyes on a goldmine located near a small, demilitarised village led by Nan. He and his men originally planned on simply scaring the villagers away, but they resisted and soon after, Shiin and his clan wiped a majority of them out before fleeing due to a storm.

 Personality 
Shiin was a corrupt individual, having no qualms attacking an innocent village and killing its people to support his clan. 

 Appearance 
Shiin was a man of pallid complexion. He had long black hair which framed his face. He wore a purple kimono, held closed by a purple sash over which he wore a matching grey haori and beige collar. He carried his flute tucked into the side of his sash.
 
 Abilities 
Being a leader of a group of bandits implies that Shiin was a fairly powerful shinobi. He was seen to be able to move at very high speeds, such that Neji Hyūga, Tenten, and Naruto Uzumaki had trouble following him. His main form of combat was the utilisation of weapons, such as kunai and explosive tags. He was in possession of a unique type of kunai with long red ropes attached to the ends. He could use these with great skill, accurately attacking enemies, creating traps out of the rope and using them to swiftly move around the battlefield, being able to avoid attacks from even those who had their chakra enhanced. 

He was able to utilise a flute-based genjutsu to paralyse his opponents.

 Part I 
 Menma Memory Search Mission 

Eventually, Shiin attacked the village. Having difficulty with getting past the wall and defeating the Konoha ninja, he resorted to using music to paralyse the Konoha ninja, but Menma countered the technique with his own music ninjutsu. This allowed Naruto to break Shiin's flute, plus Tenten and Neji to defeat the raiders.

Shiin, realising the battle to be lost, retreated to the dam at the river. He planned to flood the village to drown the villagers. The gold mine would be left unharmed. Shiin's plan to flood the village was stopped when Menma collapsed the mine. In the end, Shiin was trying to escape but Naruto manages to catch up with him and defeat him with Rasengan. Shiin was later seen tied up with the rest of the bandits.

 Trivia 
 Shiin's use of the flute is similar to Tayuya's. Even the music to bind the enemy is similar to the one that Tayuya plays.
 Shiin's name is written with the kanji for  and .