Title: Shimon Hijiri
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Shimon_Hijiri
-----------------------

is a chūnin from Konohagakure, as well as a member of the Analysis Team in the village's Intelligence Division.

 Personality 
Shimon is a very earnest person, wanting to accomplish all of his jobs. He was seen to be someone who doesn't enjoy messing around especially in dire situations. He will often yell or bicker with the person who has gotten on his nerves.

 Appearance 
Shimon has shoulder-length brown hair with two long bangs in the front. Along with his hair that frames his face, his forehead protector obscures his eyes. He wears the standard outfit of the Torture and Interrogation Force which consists of a grey button-up suit.

 Abilities 
Not much has been seen in the way of Shimon's abilities but he is skilled enough to aid Inoichi in delving into the minds of the enemy in order to retrieve potentially valuable information.

 Part I 
 Chūnin Exams 

During the Chūnin Exams, Shimon was amongst the elite group of chūnin that accompanied Ibiki Morino as overseers for the written portion of the examinations. There he kept an eye on the exam candidates, recording their actions and calling out the ones who were caught cheating more than three times.

 Konoha Plans Recapture Mission 

In the anime, Shimon was sent by Tsunade along with many other chūnin to investigate a possible attack on Konoha. It was later revealed that the whole incident had been set up by Gennō.

 Part II 
 Pain's Assault 

He, Mawashi Dokuraku, and Tonbo Tobitake assisted Inoichi Yamanaka in reading the mind of Yūdachi in order to extract valuable information for the village. When Pain's Assault on Konoha started, they helped to distract the Animal Path in order to give Inoichi and the others a chance to escape and analyse what he had learned.

 Trivia 
 His eyes are obstructed by his bangs in the manga. In his anime début, however, they were visible and shown to be black. This was corrected in his later appearances in the anime.
 "Shimon" can mean a lot of things, including , , and  while,  can mean "saintly" or "virtuous". His name might be an allusion to  who signified listening. In fact, in the TCG his card is named St. Simon.