Title: Shinbu
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Shinbu
-----------------------

is a Yugakure shinobi.

 Background 

Shinbu and his comrades were on a mission to deliver a scroll of secret data while being guarded by Team Minato. While crossing the forest, they were attacked by their opponents, causing Team Minato to split up, leaving Rin Nohara and Kakashi Hatake with Yugakure shinobi. They take them to the bridge, but Shinbu was injured and fell off the cliff.

Babu and Inagi, having turned out to be traitors and having killed Iwato, found an injured Shinbu and tried to kill him. Obito Uchiha, Rin, and Kakashi arrive just in time to help him. Iwato revealed he knew about the traitors in their ranks, but he did not know their identities, so the village leadership gave several scrolls, the second of which turned out to be with Shinbu, and it was he who had the information, while Iwato's scroll was empty. However, Shinbu dropped the scroll in the river when he fell into it from a cliff, causing Inagi to retrieve it. Kakashi gave chase, leaving Obito and Rin to look after an injured Shinbu.

After some time, when Kakashi and Minato killed the traitors and their accomplices, Rin healed Shinbu's wounds, and Minato returned the scroll to him. He thanked them for saving their lives and expressed hope for a new meeting.

 Personality 
Shinbu was a brave and responsible person who, even under pain of death, guarded the scroll entrusted to him. He was pleased that it was Team Minato who guarded them, showing respect to Minato Namikaze, expressing hope to meet him again.

 Appearance 
Shinbu is a man with swarthy skin, black eyes with pronounced lines underneath, and ash-coloured hair, two strands of which frame his face on the sides. He wears a grey turtleneck and pants, and a purple flak jacket with one chest pocket on the left side, and one stomach pocket on the right side. In addition, a bandanna with a village protector is tied around his head, and a brown bag hangs from a belt on the back.

 Abilities 
Shinbu did not show any martial skill, but he seemed to be a responsible and reliable person, as he was entrusted with one of the important scrolls that was hunted by a large number of people.

 Trivia 
 In the English voice acting, Shinbu and his teammate, Babu, are voiced by the same actor.