Title: Soul Tao
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Soul_Tao
-----------------------

is an Academy student of Konohagakure.

 Personality 

Soul is a rather energetic girl who tries to follow everything that happens in the life of the class. She is also short-tempered and unable to reconcile for a long time, going so far as to refuse to study with Ehō Norimaki when they were at odds, but after her teacher helped her understand the pointlessness of the conflict, she accepted it. Soul has an incredible admiration for Might Guy, keeping his picture in her locket. Soul is generally one for comraderie with friends, enjoying to play Extreme: Shinobi Picture Scrolls together and congratulating them with pats on their shoulders for success. Likewise, Soul becomes happy when someone praises the dish she has prepared. At the same time, she has a very assertive and competitive side, easily intimidating the older Kawaki when angered. She can even be very violent when angry, displaying her displeasure by hitting her target.

 Appearance 
Soul is a girl with a narrow face, brown eyes, and brown braided hair. She wears an orange sweater and brown shorts.

 Abilities 
Soul is very strong physically, being able to throw the much larger Kawaki quite far distance in a single go. She has good skills in shurikenjutsu, deftly pinning Kawaki to a wooden stump, and is a skilled cook, being able to make curry, which Kawaki delighted in.

 New Era 
 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

Soul attended the Academy opening ceremony as part of a new class. Her classroom was put under the care of new teacher Hana Kaka. Her class included many children of famous people, including the daughter of an acting duo, the daughter of the Seventh Hokage, and Kae Yukiwari, the princess of the Land of Bamboo. The class also included Kawaki, a noticeably older student.

Later, she attended a tea party at Kae's home. After Kae angrily scolded Osuka Kamakura for her forcing a friend to ruin the tea party, Soul and the other classmates openly applauded Kae, finding her true outspoken side more enjoyable than the prim and proper demeanour she had been hiding behind.

When Team 7 taught her class as special instructors, they had the class go though an exercise about fighting on an empty stomach. She got into a conflict with Ehō over whether Mimi eating a candy bar was beyond the scope of the exercise or defeating its purpose, with most of the class dividing themselves over those supporting her or Ehō. The next day, most of the students refused to have class together over the dispute. Hana later convinced to let go, pointing out the growth potential of having a friendly rivalry. The following day, she made up with Ehō and everyone attended Hana's cherry blossom viewing party.

During a practical lesson day, she was placed in a team alongside Harika and Kawaki. As he was older, the girls decided he should be team leader. However, Kawaki kept being distracted by his own secret mission to protect Kae, placing their team poorly in the assignments, angering the girls to the point Harika took over as leader. During lunch, she cooked curry and stressed he should make up for it during the afternoon tests. Kawaki's performance during the afternoon was much more committed, placing them highly in the tests, though not enough to place first in general over the lacklustre performance during the morning.

Soul's class had to put on a play about the Sannin. When Eiki's struggle with Kawaki damaged the set, Soul joined in the repair efforts. The day of the festival, Soul helped her classmates prepare the booths and decorations. When the festival received a terrorist threat, she stayed inside.

Following the terrorist attack, Soul joined her class-mates in visiting Hana who was injured during the attack. Later, Soul was amused by Sōsha's story about Eiki's crush.

Later, following Hana being hospitalised from the terrorist attack, Soul joined her class in welcoming back their teacher. To make up for the festival being cancelled, Hana arranged for the class to undergo survival training on an uninhabited island. However, Kikuchiyo was injured and their food supplies vanished, stoking fear about a rumour of killer missing-nin settling on the island. Everyone formed groups to scavenge food, and later to look for Neon's damaged drone. Soul found it, and together with Doseki, suggested they take advantage of their numbers to look for whoever was behind it, Kawaki arguing against it, pointing out their diminished surveillance capabilities without Mimi's ninken and Neon's drone. Soul suggested using Harika's kikaichū, but Harika herself stressed their limited range. By night, everyone enjoyed their food.

Attracted by an explosion, the class encountered Kawaki and Himawari, who revealed that Hana, actually an assassin, had killed Kae. Himawari pointed out that her actions made more sense if Hana wanted to keep Kae as a hostage. Working together, the students tracked Kae and Hana to a cave. Finding the situation too dangerous for the students, Kawaki revealed himself as a shinobi, and credited them for helping find Kae. Eiki still believed there was something they could do, leading them to the docks, hoping to get word of the situation out. They came across Sai, who came to the island with Team 25 after discovering Hana's Land of Bamboo background. Upon finding Hana defeated, her teacher personality struggled against the assassin one, eventually prevailing with the encouragement of her students and regaining control. As Kae had to return home, the class finally put on the Sannin play, and later saw her off at the train station.

 Trivia 
 Her name is the Japanese spelling of soul.
 Just like Rock and Metal Lee, her name is derived from the Soul musical genre.
 Soul's favourite food is Ōban-yaki.Boruto episode 263