Title: Suiko
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Suiko
-----------------------

was a shinobi from the Takumi Village and a member of the Four Celestial Symbols Men. 

 Personality 
Like many minor villains in Part I, Suiko was overconfident about the power his shield  provided, and believed nothing could breach its defences. This presumption led to his death at the hands of Gaara who managed to tear through it. Like all members in his team, Suiko was single-minded about his goals, using any method he thought necessary to achieve them.

 Appearance 

Suiko was by far the largest of his group. A broadly built man, he wore a purple coat over which he wore his armour which was designed with a silver tiger-like head breastplate and a pair of dark blue pauldrons. His eyes had small black pupils and wavy brown hair with a small beard. He wore a type of chakra absorbing armour called Infinite Armour and carried a mace around with him as a weapon.

 Abilities 

Suiko had immense physical strength, able to swing his giant mace with great speed and power. He was in possession of the Infinite Armour which granted him the ability to absorb the chakra of anyone who tried to attack him with both ninjutsu and taijutsu, as well giving him a natural defence, durable enough to withstand a direct kick delivered by Rock Lee. He was strong enough to take on Naruto Uzumaki, Rock Lee and Gaara simultaneously for a short amount of time. He was also very important for the strategy of the Four Celestial Symbols Men, more precisely, was tasked to hold Gaara up for the time the rest of his team needed to prepare the Ninja Tools Barrier: Reverse Fish Scales Formation and did this with bravery. He was also skilled in bukijutsu, wielding a flail which could double as a mace.

 Part I 
 Sunagakure Support Mission 
He and his group abducted Matsuri, Gaara's student, to get access to Gaara's Shukaku powers to revive Seimei, Takumi Village's founder. He injured Rock Lee at his entering in their battle with Gaara. With his armour protecting him for the most part Suiko and Gaara, another defensive expert, were engaged in a stand-off as neither could harm the other until he was eventually overpowered and impaled by Gaara's Ultimately Hard Absolute Attack: Spear of Shukaku.

 Trivia 
 His name, meaning "Water Tiger" comes from Byakko, the White Tiger of the West. It is also a type of water goblin often mistaken for a kappa.