Title: Suiren (Kiri)
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Suiren_(Kiri)
-----------------------

was a kunoichi of Kirigakure. 
 
 Background 

Ten years prior to the formation of the Allied Shinobi Forces, Suiren was part of Ganryū's team that was tasked with retrieving a scroll along with a team from Iwagakure taken by Kumogakure shinobi. After retrieving the document, Suiren was excited for the prospects of peace that a mission like this would bring. She was, however, wrong as Iwagakure betrayed them. After Junsai was killed, Suiren sacrificed herself in order to protect Ganryū. This incident which came to be known as the Tragedy of Yosuga Pass marked the beginning of hostilities between Kirigakure and Iwagakure.

 Personality 
Suiren was a kind and loving person, who dearly held onto the ideals of peace. After their mission was seemingly completed, she spoke openly of what an alliance like this between Kirigakure and Iwagakure would mean for the shinobi world. She deeply loved her teammates, as seen that she didn't mind protecting Ganryū from a barrage of kunai despite having been severely wounded earlier.

 Appearance 
Suiren had brown eyes and long blonde hair with two long strands framing her heart-shaped face and going down to her chest. She wore a pair of turquoise earrings along with the standard attire of the Kirigakure-nin complete with forehead protector and flak jacket, along with the jade-green bangle that was worn by her team.

Abilities
Although almost nothing is known of her abilities, she has been seen to be very fast being able to intercept several thrown kunai and shield her teammate.

 Legacy 
After her death, Ganryū decided to avenge his two teammates, leading a group of shinobi who also held a hostility against Iwagakure. The Third Tsuchikage, knowing that Ganryū held a hostility against Iwagakure, ordered Kurotsuchi and Akatsuchi to retrieve her bangle, in order to apologise for what happened ten years ago. Because Akatsuchi was wounded in his fight with Ganryū, Chōjūrō gave the bangle to him instead. Later, her plans for peace in the ninja world were passed on by Ganryū, to Naruto Uzumaki.

 Trivia 
  literally means "water lily".

 Quotes 
 (To Ganryū and Junsai) "If this mission is a success, we will show the rest of the lands that there is solidarity between Iwagakure and Kirigakure. That way we can get a little bit closer to peace."Naruto: Shippūden episode 242
 (Last words to Ganryū) "I wish I could have seen… peace…"