Title: Sumire Kakei
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Sumire_Kakei
-----------------------

, born , is a kunoichi of Konohagakure's Scientific Ninja Weapons Team and a former member of Team 15.

 Background 

After Danzō Shimura died and the existence of Root and its actions were made public knowledge, all its members became ostracised by the village, including Sumire's family. This contributed to Sumire's mother growing ill and later dying. The loss affected Sumire deeply, as one of the few joys she experienced was spending time with her mother brushing her hair and over time Sumire couldn't even remember her mother's voice.Boruto episode 14 

Sumire's father, Tanuki Shigaraki, a devout follower of Danzo, trained her from a young age in order to avenge Root.Boruto episode 13 Eventually, he bestowed her with Gozu Tennō. After the death of her parents, Sumire became an orphan and created the identity of "Sumire Kakei", deciding that it was best to wait and create a cover story before exacting her father's plan. Sumire eventually became the representative of her Academy class, during which, she began nurturing the Nue's development.

 Personality 
Sumire is a rather meek and quiet girl who, like many children her age, adore the Seventh Hokage. While not very outspoken, Sumire showed genuine concern for her classmates. Sumire was also very respectful and dutiful, and wished to avoid conflict if necessary. Her reason for wanting to become a shinobi was to live up to her father's memory.Boruto episode 12

Once steeling her resolve to complete her father's final request, Sumire became a very driven person, and, due to her arduous training as a child, showed no remorse for her former friends and other villagers. When confronted by Boruto, Sumire exclaimed that the Sumire he knew never existed. Despite this, she had still come to value the friendship she made with her fellow classmates who in reality did not want to hurt anyone. Thanks to Boruto's unwavering loyalty to her, Sumire was able to let go of her past and answer for her mistakes. She also developed a strong bond to Nue, seeing it as her family. Once returning to her status as class rep, she fully rejected her past with her father, believing stronger that his views were wrong. Letting go of her hatred, Sumire reverted to naturally kind and meek attitude. She is also shown to be very methodical and analytical, having quickly understood the nature of her friends' preferred battle tactics and how best to approach them for the Chūnin Exams.

By the time she began working for the Scientific Ninja Weapons Team, Sumire seemed to become more calm and confident about herself, openly expressing herself. She also developed romantic feelings for Boruto, openly saying she was interested in him. At the same time, although open about it to her friends, she is very embarrassed and wants to keep it a secret from Boruto. In the anime, she remained unaware of her feelings for him for longer, often just blushing at the thought of him. Sumire also showed great emotional control and maturity during critical situations as she remained focused and composed when Konoha was brainwashed into believing Boruto was a stranger to the village who killed the Seventh Hokage in contrast to Sarada, who was deeply distressed. She also showed great intuition, correctly assuming that Ada was responsible.

After declaring a peaceful rivalry between Sarada and for Boruto's affection, and forgoing her nickname of "Class Rep", she began showing a noticeably more outspoken and cheerful nature. 

 Appearance 

Sumire is a young girl with purple-coloured eyes and knee-length hair, the back of which is tied into two long braided ponytails. Her side bangs are cropped above the jaw to frames her face and her top bangs hang just above her eyes. She wore a black polo neck shirt, with a violet dress over it that has a white collar on it, knotted by a purple ribbon, almost resembling a seifuku overall with long black shinobi sandals. She also changes her flower hair ties to viola ones during her return to the Academy. After graduation, Sumire wore a more sleek version with black wristbands and black shorts. She also wore a purple forehead protector and her hair was styled into a single braid with a flower hair tie.

At some point, her father placed the formula for the Gozu Tennō on her back. While undercover, Sumire wore a cracked pale-white mask with two horn-like disfigurements and a white cloak. Underneath her cloak, she wore a purple sleeveless halterneck shirt with a light pink sash around her waist and dark pants with a shuriken holster around her right thigh, and long fingerless black gloves. She also had bandages wrapped around her wrists and footwear and she let her hair down. After letting go of her hatred, the Gozu Tennō was removed from her back. Soon after, it was replaced with a small red dot on her left palm, serving as an eye for Nue.

Sumire later wears a purple seifuku dress and black high-heeled mary-jane shoes with white ankle socks (in the anime, she wears regular shinobi heeled sandals). She also cuts her long hair to a bob-style reaching her shoulders with twin long braids.Boruto chapter 19

Three years after Boruto left Konoha, Sumire grew her hair out again into twin braids reaching her mid-back. She also wears a purple dress with a mid-skirt, a white button-down shirt and collar under it with a striped-pattern necktie, two grey bracelets on both of her wrists, and thigh-high, black high-heel sandals.

 Abilities 
Having gone through arduous training since a young age, Sumire is a very capable kunoichi, well above the genin level. She was shown able to hold her own against a squadron of adult and elite ninja, who all acknowledged Sumire's skill. 

 Intelligence 
Her most powerful asset is her cunning and creative mind. In her original quest for revenge, she proved herself to be very deceptive and manipulative as she forge herself a new identity, that of a meek and ordinary young girl. After becoming a genin, her intelligence was further shown in being scouted by the Scientific Ninja Weapons Team at a young age, where despite this, became one of its most valued workers. To which, was revealed by Koji Kashin, she was originally destiny to create a new, more advanced form of technology that would prove invaluable against the Human God Trees had he not divinated himself.

While apparently not a Medical-nin, Sumire is shown very skilled in general medical treatment, often helping the various doctors in the Konoha Hospital care for the patients. 

 Ninjutsu 

Sumire excels in Water Release, able to perform various techniques, like creating clones, protective walls, and projectiles, as well as using techniques such as  and .Boruto: Naruto Next Generations, Volume 5's Sumire's Profile She has considerable skill in shurikenjutsu, able to counter an attack with her kunai while simultaneously throwing it accurately. In the anime, she is able to effectively perform Cooperation Ninjutsu and Fūinjutsu, able to use both to restrict a person's movements and expand the might of this alongside fellow users.Boruto episode 37

Summoning Technique

Initially through the Gozu Tennō placed on her back, Sumire was able to summon Nue to assist her, even without fully manifesting its form. It can create snake-like masses of negative chakra to attack with, which can be used to steal the chakra of others. While the summoning contract was seemingly destroyed, she retained a portion of the seal on her left palm. Afterwards, Sumire utilities the  technique to summon Nue, albeit in a chibi and house pet-sized form.Boruto episode 34 Later, Nue became able to temporarily further mature its form into roughly the size and shape of a large jungle cat.

 Physical Prowess 
Sumire is very fast and nimble, able to effectively evade attacks and evade a group of pursers. She also has noticeable taijutsu prowess, able to fight on par with Mitsuki. She is very stealthy in general, able to effectively hide her presence, making it very hard to locate her.

 New Era: Part I 
 Academy Entrance Arc 

In the anime, on the day of the entrance ceremony, as everyone began looking for an absent Boruto Uzumaki, he suddenly appeared, crashing a train into the Hokage Monument, which left Sumire amazed at his antics. Shikamaru then had everyone clear out to begin clean-up. Two weeks later, Sumire tried to settle things down when Inojin Yamanaka began speaking out. When her class watches Boruto fight Iwabee Yuino, Sumire noted that Boruto really seems to be striving to make a name for himself outside his relationship to the Seventh Hokage. The following day, Sumire is relieved to see Boruto getting along better with everyone. Chōchō Akimichi teases Sumire about her concern for Boruto, to which an embarrassed Sumire insists it is purely from her status as class rep.

Weeks later, as class started learning shurikenjutsu, Sumire was upset that her own performance wasn't showing much progress. Eventually, Boruto's reckless fun caused some property damage. Shino Aburame decided to have Boruto, along with a bunch of other students help with repairs to the Hokage Rock, although he insisted that Sumire's part would mainly be supervision. When the boys and girls of their class got into an argument, Shino assisted that they settle things with a race to capture the flag on top of the Academy. Despite their victory, the girls made peace with the boys. Later, Sumire realises that she is being stalked. Eventually, she and her friends discover that it is Magire. When Magire meekly asks her out, Sumire turned him down. The following day, to Sumire's horror, various creepy messages are left for her. Eventually, she is confronted by Magire, who kidnaps her. When her friends found them, Chōchō was able to reach Magire, noting that such an indecisive nature will never win anyone over. Accepting his poor methods of trying to make Sumire like him, the spectre was rejected from Magire.

The class was later assigned by Shino to split into groups of three and each tail a different workplace for a few days to better understand non-shinobi life. Sumire alongside Wasabi Izuno and Namida Suzumeno decided to work at the Water Purification Plant. On the second day, Sumire unleashed the Nue on the feigning being a victim. She was ultimately "saved" by the Hokage, who took Sumire and her fellow injured classmates to the hospital. Her friends and teacher soon afterwards went to check on her. Later, Sumire watched solemnly as her injured classmates were relieved from care early and left with their respective parents.

Soon after realising that her identity was found out, Sumire left the hospital, having feigned injuries, and decided to complete her mission. She was ultimately ambushed by Sai Yamanaka and his team. While initially subdue, she summoned the Nue to rampage the village. As she slipped away, she was confronted by Mitsuki, who noted his mission to kill her. As the two began fighting, Boruto arrived, demanding answers. Sumire bluntly stated that her entire existence has always been for revenge. As Boruto intervened in another clash between his two friends, his eye began to act wildly. Nue then teleported above the children. Sumire calmly offered herself as the necessary chakra to complete its development, which the creature grabbed her. Boruto and Mitsuki followed her into Nue's pocket dimension. Together, they were able to subdue the beast. Before Mitsuki could destroy it, Sumire appeared to defend it. Boruto stepped in, insisting her identity as Class Rep was the real her. Torn between all she knew, Sumire ordered the Nue to take her chakra and finish her father's plan, only for Nue to instead affectionately snuggle against her. Boruto noted that as Sumire basically raised Nue, it has come to view her as a parent.

left|
As Boruto continued insisting that she can forge her own path void of anger, Sumire was finally able to let go of her own anger, weakening the Gozu Tennō. This caused the dimension to begin crumbling around them. As Sumire resigned to accept demise as penance, she finally remembered her mother's voice and sincere desire for her happiness. This, along with Boruto coming to her aid, convinced her to come back. Nue then helped the three students escape the dimension, being left behind from falling debris. Back in the normal dimension, Sai and his unit arrived. Sympathising with Sumire's past, he offered to help her rebuild her life, which Sumire accepted as she turned herself in. Before leaving, Boruto noticed that piece of Nue's essence remained with Sumire on her left palm, much to her delight.

Due to Sumire turning herself in and there being no casualties, Sumire was given leniency. However, while determining her future, she was held in a detention cell. Soon afterwards, she was visited by Shino. Unable to look her teacher in the eye after what she did to him, Shino insisted that he held no ill feelings towards her, and actually was grateful as it helped him grow as a teacher. Shino offered to help her in any way to rebuild her life, insisting that she is no longer an instrument of her father's. Ultimately, Sumire was pardoned for her actions and allowed to return to the Academy. Her class was overjoyed to see her return, which gave Sumire mixed feelings. Upon seeing Boruto give her a silent approval, Sumire cried in joy, happy to return to the life of happiness at the Academy.

 School Trip Arc 

In the anime, to improve relationships with other villages and symbolically show the warring era was over, the Seventh Hokage set up an official class trip for the Academy to go to Kirigakure. Upon arriving, they were met with Kagura Karatachi, who was appointed by the Mizukage to act as the class' tour guide. The class was later taken to meet Chōjūrō, the Sixth Mizukage, who welcomed the class to the village. Later, the class was confronted by a group of delinquents, with their leader Tsurushi Hachiya, openly expressed their dislike of outsiders. After Kagura stepped into in an attempt to stop the fight, his hand was cut, which Sumire soon after tended to. When their field trip was finished, Sumire and her classmates departed Kiri by cruise ship.

 Graduation Exams Arc 

In the anime, as the Genin Exams began to draw near, Boruto, fearing that his friends were drifting apart, invited everyone on a camping trip to catch a famed Eternal Carp. During the trip, Sumire voiced her joy as having made such wonderful friends. Upon finally ensnaring one of the massive fishes, Sumire summoned the Nue to help, showing that the creature had begun to regain its previous form and power. The miniaturised Nue used its chakra to strengthen Boruto's fishing pole and successfully capture the fish. The friends soon afterwards cooked and at the fish to their delight. During the exams, taking up Shino's subtle offer to try stealing the test answers for the written test, Sumire and her friends were able to easily pass the test.

Later, during the practical and final test, the class was brought to the training field. There, the entire class was set up to face their Academy teachers and Kakashi Hatake (who had the bell) for 24 hours. While the teachers would still evaluate the students' respective improvements, the students' true test was against Kakashi Hatake. The Sixth Hokage quickly explained that he would only pass the first student who is able to take the single bell attached to his hip. As the test began, Sumire and Sarada faced Konohamaru Sarutobi, leading to him defeating the pair. Regrouping with other students, the group devised a plan to combat the shinobi. Having Nue provided earbuds to students, Namida knocked out Anko Mitarashi with her sound waves. Afterwards, all the students transformed in Boruto and faced Kakashi, during which the class managed to restrain him in order for Boruto to try to take his bell. Despite failing to accomplish the task within the time limit, Kakashi passed the class, leading to Sumire becoming a genin. Later, she was placed on Team 15, alongside Wasabi and Namida under Hanabi Hyūga's leadership.

 Byakuya Gang Arc 

In the anime, with the continued thefts performed by the Byakuya Gang throughout Konohagakure, Team 15 was assigned alongside the other genin teams to help stop the self-proclaimed noble thieves. However, the genin were not permitted to engage the Byakuya Gang without aid from a chūnin or higher-ranked shinobi. Later, Sumire and Wasabi, minus a later Namida, found the thieves stealing from a pawn shop. While deciding what to do, the thieves spotted them and attacked. Fortunately for the genin, they were saved by the timely arrival of Temari, who drove them on the retreat. Later, despite the thieves escaping, Sumire and Wasabi thanked Temari for her aid. Later, the villagers supporting the Byakuya Gang began acting out against companies accused of corrupt actions. Sumire joined her fellow ninja in working to pacify the situation, which was ultimately accomplished after Naruto quelled the protest.

 Konoha Shinden: Steam Ninja Scrolls 

In the manga, Sumire and her team were assigned a mission to locate a lost cat, which they had been searching for everywhere in the village.

 Versus Momoshiki Arc 

In the anime, two weeks later, Sumire continued to feel guilty about not coming clean about her previous actions against the village with Nue. Later, Sumire and her team were assigned the mission of capturing all the escaped animals from Fire Park. Hanabi assigned her students to handle all the smaller animals alone. During the mission, Wasabi got into a fight with Namida, making the latter run away. Wasabi and Sumire were then alerted by Namida's scream. To their horror, they found her being attacked by a giant white-maned wolf. Putting aside their differences, the three worked together to take down the massive beast. As Wasabi and Namida made up with each other, this encouraged Sumire to come clean with her mistakes, admitting that she was behind the Nue incident. Wasabi and Namida revealed they already knew and likewise forgave her. Hanabi then appeared, having watched everything and congratulated the genin on their great teamwork.

Having received Hanabi's permission to participate in the Chūnin Exams, Team 15 was approved to partake in the event. Attending the entrance ceremony, Sumire's team raced towards the first exam venue in order to not get eliminated by the time limit. There, the team participated in a true or false question, which resulted in all competitors falling into a pit that contained a pool of ink. Having summoned Nue to prevent herself and the team from falling into ink, Team 15 passed the first round. Three days later, for the second round of the exams, the girls competed in a game of capture the flag against a Kumogakure team. While facing Yurui with Wasabi, Toroi acquired their flag, resulting in Team 15 failing the exams. She later watches the final round of the exam with her teammates. She and her team-mates cheered for Boruto when he defeated Shinki to win the tournament, but were very distraught upon learning that he cheated using an advanced ninja tool, the Kote, which was deemed banned from the Chūnin Exams and thus was disqualified. A few days later, after the Ōtsutsuki were defeated and things began returning to normal, Sumire and her team-mates watch Boruto's interview at the Lightning Burger.

 Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc 

In the anime, when Boruto approached Sumire and her team to see if they had seen Mitsuki, they informed him they hadn't.

Later, after eavesdropping on the Hokage, Sumire and her friends learned of the danger Team 7 was in at Iwagakure. The genin were determined to help their friends and requested to join the Hokage. While Naruto initially refused to put the genin in danger, the group firmly said they will go with or without his approval. Admiring their loyalty to their friends, Naruto decided to let them. Upon arriving at Iwa however, the battle was already won and Team 7 was safe, leaving Sumire and the others relieved.

The victory, however, came at the personal sacrifice of the Third Tsuchikage. While the Konoha-nin wanted to attend the funeral, Naruto sent them all back to Konohagakure.

Sometime later, as Namida's only effective technique began harming her team-mates and clients as much as the enemies, Namida resolved to develop a new technique. Sumire and Wasabi, worried that their friend would quickly lose resolve under the strict training regime of Hanabi, decided to help in the training. While eventually their efforts helped Namida improve significantly, their next mission pitted them against bandits whose techniques made Namida's new technique useless. When the bandit's leader stole a sacred document from the clients, Namida fell into despair about not being stronger. Sumire and Wasabi, however, insisted that she had grown considerably, as seen from how she hadn't yet succumbed to tears like she normally would. Encouraged by her friends, Namida recalled the chakra control she was required to develop for her new technique and instead applied it to her signature scream technique, which focused it into a long-range concussive blast that only harmed the bandit's leader.

 Jūgo Arc 

In the anime, sometime later, Team 7 and Team 15 were led by Konohamaru, Hanabi having had another assignment. They were assigned to investigate the random attacks on village from its nearby wildlife. Tosaka, an ornithologist, was appointed to lend assistance with the birds. Upon arriving, the group was attacked by strange-looking birds. When Boruto got separated from the team, Sumire summoned Nue to help him, saving him from the sudden attack by Jūgo. At the village, they learned that many people attacked by the mutated birds quickly became sick and were covered in Cursed Seals. The villagers also found an unconscious Jūgo, who was recognised by Sarada and Mitsuki. When the man awoke and was questioned, one the sick villagers went on a feral rampage and was drawn to Jūgo. After he subdued the villager, Jūgo retreated to the forest. When learning of Jūgo being in the area, Konohamaru speculated that Orochimaru was involved in this, and split the team up to investigate, warning everyone not to engage him alone, letting the Team 15 genin stay together.

Sumire and the girls helped Konohamaru follow Team 7 after Jūgo injured him and drained his chakra. They found Jūgo passed out with an injection device by his hand. When another bird attacked them, Jūgo woke up and cured it from its cursed seal before leaving. Back at the village, Konohamaru tasked Team 15 with going back to Konoha to report and request backup. On their way, they were attacked by Momo and Sasami, who took the opportunity to test their device based cursed seals. They quickly defeated them and infected Namida and Wasabi with cursed seals. Nue fought off the attackers and carried Sumire away to safety.

After Sumire recovered, she began looking for her allies with Nue. They were soon approached by Suigetsu Hōzuki and Karin. Before she could talk to them, Nue, sensing Suigetsu's malicious nature, attacked him. He quickly dealt with them. After Sumire awoke before the them and her fellow Konoha genin, she learned the Oto-nin were also looking for Jūgo to bring him home, who had been apprehended by the Land of Rivers' researchers. As she explained to everyone about her attackers' cursed seal devices, the group noted that they were working with the researchers, realising that they were behind the outbreak. Finding a common goal, the Oto-nin decided to help the genin. 

During a distraction to lure Momo and Sasami out of the enemy base, Sumire snuck in and found her team-mates. Telling her about an antidote, Sumire administered it to Wasabi and Namida. As Sumire helped the two escape, they however were intercepted by Momo. While able to hold her own briefly against him, to protect her friends, Sumire was reluctantly forced to summon Nue. Even as the duo teamed up against him, Momo's cursed seal proved too much. Concluding that only Nue's full power would be enough to defeat Momo, Namida and Wasabi offered their chakra to let Nue transform again into its larger form. Once Nue was transformed, it and Sumire were able to defeat him destroy his cursed seal collar. While Nue was ready to finish him off by absorbing his chakra, Sumire talked it out of doing so.

Team 15 made their way to the lake, where Karin and Sarada asked their help in finding and containing the still infected birds before they migrated. They struggled to find the birds, and Karin considered killing them to stop the infection from spreading. Sumire summoned Nue to aid Boruto, but only managed to rescue him from one attack before Jūgo defeated it, having attacked against Sumire's orders. She tried to intervene, but Boruto convinced her not to, and informed her of his plan to revert Jūgo's transformation. The plan worked, and Mitsuki arrived with Konohamaru and Suigetsu, who consumed the serum to cure the infection and merged with the lake to rain it over the birds, curing them. Sumire informed Wasabi and Namida that Boruto's belief of wanting to become who they want to be inspired her to join the Scientific Ninja Weapons Team to find a better way to synergise with Nue, and asked them to keep it quiet, as she wanted to inform their friends herself.

Sometime later, Sumire's transfer was made official. During which, she met her replacement for Team 15, Tsubaki Kurogane a samurai student from the Land of Iron. Also, she was given a farewell party by her friends.

 Ao Arc 

In the manga, by the time Sumire was eligible to enter the Chūnin Exams, she instead chose to begin working at Scientific Ninja Weapons Team, where she soon became one of their top workers. 

left|
One day when Katasuke Tōno was returning to the lab from a field test, Sumire was surprised to find him being guarded by her former classmates in Team Konohamaru. As she served tea and began to catch up with them, she voiced both her joy at her job and working alongside Katasuke. She then watched as Boruto and his team aided in the testing of new ninja tech. Later, as Boruto and his team prepared to head out, Sumire asked Sarada if she had any feelings for Boruto, and when Sarada denied having any, Sumire revealed that she had feelings for Boruto herself, which shocked Sarada, and happily waved him goodbye.

 Kawaki Arc 

In the anime, Team 7 returned to the institute with a young man named Kawaki, who was of great importance to Kara. Unsure of where he allegiance lied, he was detained until the Hokage came. Sumire was in charge of tending to the boy, only to be met with aggressive harshness. She tried to calm him down by explaining the situation and where they were, but to no avail. Later, the boy was able to escape after getting his hand on some Scientific Ninja Tech. Realising it was her fault for telling the boy of their location, Sumire rushed to stop him. While finding him and managing to overpower him, he knocked her out with a Shinobi Gauntlet. This prompted Nue to savagely attack Kawaki despite Sumire's protesting against it. Ultimately, Nue's attack injured the boy's arm but also broke his restraints. Kawaki boldly said that Sumire is a monster like himself before escaping the base, leaving her troubled. However, despite that, she decided to go after Kawaki along with Nue.

Tracking his blood trail, Sumire soon found Kawaki in a village, protecting a stray dog from a meat vendor after the dog stole from the man. Sumire quickly went to work treating the dog. She then insisted to Kawaki that she can understand the nature of the boy's anger. She opened up to him, telling him that she too was abused growing up by family, but sought to move past such hardships. Seeing he was hungry, she offered him a syringe for a nutrient boost. Kawakai however quickly attacked her, still not trusting her. His outburst alerted the police, forcing him to retreat. Sumire was found by Team 7, who left Boruto to look after her. When she awoke, she was met by with the Hokage. She insisted to him that Kawaki's rampage stemmed from emotional scars due to a troubled past. To Sumire's relief, Naruto quickly and passively subdued Kawaki.

left|
Later, when Konohagakure was attacked by Jigen, leader of Kara, the village was put on high alert, especially from how easily he entered and likewise defeated the combined might of Naruto and Sasuke. After a daring rescue by Team 7 to successfully rescue the Hokage, they were brought to the hospital for treatment. This included the newest resident of Konoha, Kawaki, who was of great importance to Kara. While Katasuke and Sumire ran tests on Kawaki, it was concluded that his body was gradually rejecting the prosthetic arm due to its incompatible nature with Kawaki's chakra and nano-tech and continued usage of the arm was causing him great pain. Sumire offered a painkiller to ease him, but he declined, insisted his body wouldn't break down so easily. In the anime, after seeing how close Sumire was to her old classmates despite resigning from shinobi work, Kawaki decided to accept her previous offer from some painkiller medicine.

When Amado of Kara sought asylum by defecting to Konohagakure, Sumire watched his interrogation, and explained about Amado's intentions to Boruto. Hearing the truth behind the works of the celestial beings, Sumire was horrified to hear that Boruto was in danger of becoming transformed into an Ōtsutsuki through his Kāma. Later, after Isshiki Ōtsutsuki imperfectly resurrected himself through Jigen's body, Sumire was part of the group accompanying Kawaki to a hidden facility protected against Isshiki's Byakugan. She feared for Boruto when she learned he had gone to fight Isshiki along Naruto and Sasuke, but Amado assured her that Boruto's contribution to the fight, though not in power, was invaluable. Amado explained that Boruto, as a wielder of a Kāma, was essential to Isshiki's plans as the God Tree can only reach full maturity by sacrificing an Ōtsutsuki. Sumire realised that once Boruto was fully transformed by his mark, Isshiki could sacrifice Boruto instead of himself. Amado applauded her quick deduction. As Amado was intrigued by Kawaki's prosthetic arm, Sumire asked him if he could restore Kawaki's original arm. He assured her that he could. Suddenly, a rift engulfed Kawaki and he disappeared, much to Sumire's horror.

 Code's Assault Arc 

Later, as everyone was concerned on what to do next, they received word that Naruto and the others had safely returned and managed to defeat Isshiki. In the anime, she along with Sarada and Mitsuki went to see Naruto, Sasuke, Kawaki, and Boruto when they arrived. She expressed concern about Boruto's situation, and became embarrassed when Chōchō pointed out her focus on him. While Amado responded to the news flatly, Sumire took notice of it. In the following days, Sumire assisted Amado and Katasuke in restoring Kawaki's proper arm. In addition to enjoying a firsthand education in such advanced science, she enjoyed getting to talk with Kawaki about Boruto, as the boy got to know him better than her. Kawaki picked up on this and asked if she likes Boruto, quickly embarrassing Sumire.

Later, Sumire was made the personal assistant to Amado. As Kawaki awoke from a nightmare about Code, Amado reminded Kawaki that even with his Kāma gone, he still remained partially modified into an Ōtsutsuki. He offered to rebrand Kawaki with the mark, noting that with Isshiki's spirit truly gone, Kawaki would have access to Isshiki's power without fear of being possessed by him. Kawaki refused and stormed off. Afterwards, Sumire spoke up, asking why Amado was so insistent on rebranding Kawaki. As Amado noted that Sumire should have kept quiet if her goal was to spy on him, Sumire came to the conclusion that he was up to something.

Despite her continued concerns of Amado's intentions, he insisted that her fears were baseless, and that he had no ill-intention against Konoha. He also revealed that his latest project, a container near him, was a project he was working on with Katasuke that would be a great ally for the village. When she learned that Kawaki was most likely fighting Code outside the village, she raised the possibility of Code having used an Outer to find him so fast, which Amado considered possible, but unlikely.

 Omnipotence Arc 

After a confrontation with Code outside Konoha, Shikamaru had Sumire examine Kawaki, not trusting Amado to do it before an interrogation. She determined his injuries had already healed due to his augmented body, and was merely unconscious from chakra exhaustion. She noticed the tense atmosphere, and unaware of the true circumstances around the situation, asked if something had happened to Naruto. Shikamaru claimed he was just exhausted from almost dying in battle earlier.

Sumire and Naruto watched over Kawaki until he woke up. Naruto asked Sumire to have the room, but Kawaki asked about his attitude towards him about killing Boruto before she could leave, shocking her. She remained quiet as the two talked until Naruto had to leave, but not before confirming to her that Boruto was indeed fine. She talked with Kawaki about what happened between him and Boruto, and listened to Kawaki's changing opinion on the Kāma before sharing with him her suspicions about Amado.

Later, Sumire joined Team 7 in their first mission briefing in a while, recalling her last conversation with Kawaki when he killed Boruto. Shikamaru and Konohamaru summarised their current Ōtsutsuki threats, and updated them on what transpired between Amado, Code, and Ada, detailing her entrancing and clairvoyant abilities. Theirs was a surveillance mission, to gauge Ada's commitment to an alliance with Konoha. When Boruto wondered why Ada would be interested in Kawaki, who is immune to her entrancing, Sumire speculated that Ada might want a genuine love experience rather than a compelled one.

Sumire later joined a meeting through comm system where Amado explained the shinjutsu origins of Ada's and Daemon's abilities. She noticed Delta's absence and rushed after her, finding her asking Sarada and Mitsuki permission to see Ada. She issued Delta's shutdown command, complained about the long distance she had to run, and voiced her concern that Delta wasn't supposed to be able to disobey her or Katasuke, deciding to have Delta's code rechecked.

When Ada was frustrated about expressing herself, she asked Sumire and Sarada to join her. When Delta attempted to join them, Sumire threatened to shut her down again. She asked Ada what she liked about Kawaki, but she was unable to answer anything other than his immunity to her ability, still stirring her feelings. Sumire contacted Sarada through the mind-link, and they realised they were not affected by Ada's ability. She stressed the importance of not letting Ada realise this, as it meant the two of them were able to attack her if necessary. Sumire informed Shikamaru of their discovery, and he ordered them to keep it to themselves to lessen the risk of it being leaked accidentally, adding to two of them to the list of people to take Ada down if it becomes necessary. A commotion between Boruto and Kawaki drew her attention, recalling her previous conversation with Kawaki about killing Boruto. After Kawaki left, Ada decided to go out as well, asking the girls to join her. They went shopping, Sumire agreeing with Sarada that Ada looked good in everything as she tried different outfits.

Sumire later learned that Kawaki had sent the Seventh Hokage and his wife away. After Boruto left, she tried to calm Sarada down when she learned Kawaki had already killed Boruto once, and planned to do it again. She and Shikamaru advised Sarada against going after Kawaki, but she ignored them.

Once Ada located Kawaki, she took off looking for him, leaving Sumire and Daemon behind. Soon after, she noticed a huge flash in the sky. Afterwards, everyone suddenly swapped views on Boruto and Kawaki, treating the former as the enemy who attacked Kawaki. Trying to make sense of everything, Sumire contacted Sarada, finding that she too found this sudden change of attitude crazy. From this, Sumire concluded that Ada's power somehow changed everyone, as like with her enchantment, Sumire and Sarada were unaffected by her. She later reached Sarada.

 New Era: Part II 
 Boruto's Return Arc 

Three years later, Sumire discussed their situation with Sarada on their way to Ada. There, they went over what they knew about Omnipotence, and had to play off being captivated by Ada, who was still puzzled as to why their memories hadn't been affected when they were neither Ōtsutsuki nor relatives of her. She was surprised to hear about Boruto's return when Code and his Claw Grime attacked the village.

After Code's retreat and Boruto's escape, Sumire questioned Amado about his unconcerned attitude towards Boruto as wielder of Akebi's Kāma. She was surprised by his deduction that his memories had been altered, having recognised that Kāma on Kawaki's hand, as well as his own work in Kawaki's body modifications, so Kawaki was the one he needed. Sumire later shared this development with Sarada, and were approached by Boruto. Sumire was concerned that Boruto would be discovered, but he assured her that he learned to suppress his chakra, able to avoid the Barrier Team, though Kawaki would still detect him soon. She asked him why the Claw Grime were attacking non-Ōtsutsuki, and he shared the Ten-Tails' usual life-cycle, and his speculation that Code's White Kāma, as an aspect of Isshiki's, triggered a change in them. Their conversation was cut short by Mitsuki's attack, which caused Boruto to retreat.

Sumire mobilised with Sarada when they received a report of intruders, one of them having Sasuke's chakra signature. Upon arriving, discovered instead of Sasuke to be Hidari. The man quickly revealed access to Sasuke's techniques, using the Chidori to attack Sarada. Sarada was able to dodge the assault and counterattack. As reinforcements arrived, Sumire informed them that Hidari's target was clearly Sarada. However, the intruder merely healed his wound and proceeded to subdue Sumire and all the shinobi present. As Hidari prepared to consume Sarada with his Wood Release, Boruto arrived to stop him.

While the other Konoha-nin were reluctant to work with an "enemy" in Boruto, Sumire informed him that Hidari was completely focused on consuming Sarada. As Boruto revealed that Hidari is a God Tree created from Sasuke's chakra, the group defended the missing-nin from Hidari's Claw Mark assaults and Claw Grimes long enough for Boruto to perform his Rasengan: "Uzuhiko". With Hidari momentarily downed, Kawaki appeared and obliterated the God Tree. Boruto then discovered Hidari's Thorn Soul Bulb, which he explained can save the devoured Sasuke. Suddenly, Jura sniped Boruto down with a blast and retrieved the bulb before retreating.As Sumire tried to tend to Boruto, Himawari, revealed to be the new Nine-Tails jinchūriki, offered to use her powers to heal Boruto. Much to Sumire's dismay, Konoha-nin chose to restrain him as a wanted criminal first.

Later, Sumire and Sarada confronted Shikamaru about the interrogation of Boruto. They were interrupted by a communication from Kankurō, who reported that the God Trees attacked Sunagakure, resulting in the Fifth Kazekage being sealed and Shinki being consumed by a Claw Grime. Once the phone call ended, Shikamaru instructed Sarada and Sumire to inform him if they make any further contact with Boruto.

 Matsuri and Ryū Arc 

Following Boruto's escape from Konoha's custody, Sarada and Sumire approached Ada for help. She looked into Boruto's past three years to better understand his intentions. Ultimately, Ada merely said that Boruto was keeping to himself. Sarada asked Ada to help find Boruto, but Sumire noted that he had his reasons for keeping away and they should respect that. As Sarada stubbornly insisted they go help him, Sumire countered that Sarada is selfishly disregarding other people's feelings. Sparked by that comment, she also noted how uncomfortable it was for her to watch Sarada embrace Boruto like that while in front of Sumire when Sarada already knew how her friend felt about him. Sumire apologised for bringing it up and excused herself for being rude. Sarada tried to call out to the former class rep, but this however upset Sumire further, not liking how Sarada continued to distance herself from Sumire by referring to her with that title. After Sumire left Sarada with a frustrated note, she questioned to herself why she did that.

Later, she walked into Amado's lab, finding the scientist being pinned down by Kawaki. As he demanded that Amado max out all of Kawaki's capacities to offensive, he spoke Kawaki's deactivation command. Sumire helped Amado move Kawaki. When the boy finally awoke, Amado agreed to upgrade Kawaki's power in light of the Human God Trees. But first, he insisted that Kawaki transfer his completed Kāma into the clone body of his daughter, Akebi, to effectively resurrect her. Kawaki refused, noting that there was a chance that this would resurrect her as an Ōtsutsuki. To which, he demanded that he would only help resurrect Akebi after his offensive capacities were maxed out and all other Ōtsutsuki-related threats were dealt with, so he could kill Akebi too if she became such. This left Sumire very concerned.

Days later, with the power adjustment on Kawaki completed, he went to the Land of Wind to aid Boruto against Jura. Sumira and Amado watched the battle through Kawaki's modifications. They were impressed how well Kawaki fared against Jura, initially overpowering the Human God Tree. As Sumire believed Kawaki could win, Amado insisted she was wrong. Soon enough Jura proved to indeed be holding back as he quickly repaired himself. He also revealed his belief that the Seventh Hokage was still alive, shocking Sumire

Soon after, Team 7 returned to Konoha and inserted the destroyed Matsuri's Thornsoul Bulb into Moegi's tree prison. It instantly freed her, who was soon after confirmed will make a full recovery. Later, Sarada decided to talk with Sumire, referring to her as such for the first time rather than "Class Rep". She apologised to Sumire about how inconsiderate she was to Sumire's feelings. Likewise, she openly admitted that she too has come to have deep feelings for Boruto. Sumire admitted she had already suspected this. Ultimately, the two friends agreed to a civil rivalry for Boruto's affection.

 Mamushi Arc 

Sumire and Sarada later talked with Ada, who asked how they intend to approach Boruto about their feelings for him. After the two say they can't tell him such with all the struggles he is currently enduring, Ada broaches her previous question about their affection towards her. Noticing how they are focused more on their feelings towards someone besides her, especially when she is in their current presence, she doubts their "genuine" attraction to her. As Sarada activates her Mangekyō Sharingan, Daemon acts swiftly, grabbing Sarada and Sumire by the neck.

Ultimately, he let them go, proclaiming he only wanted to prove how easy it would be for him to kill them. Ada returned focus to the subject at hand. She had concluded that Sumire and Sarada didn't break free from her allure, nor were they ever affected by it. She also concluded that the reason behind this was because Ada had subconsciously made it so, wanting have friends who liked her on their own. To which, she truly believed that over the past years, the two kunoichi had become her genuine friends with no real desire to hurt her. Sumire and Sarada were moved by this, hugging Ada to affirm their genuine friendship.

Afterwards, Sumire decided to get back to work at the lab, leaving Sarada to deal with a clingy Ada who wanted to have more girl talk together. On her way, Sumire was approached by Boruto who asked her to repair and improve Sasuke's sword. He presented her with plans for extremely advanced technology provided by Koji's foresight that Sumire herself would have invented in time. Sumire happily agreed to help Boruto, but on the condition he stopped calling her "Class Rep".

In the following days, Sumire was assigned as part of a secret team to deal with the Mamushi, who would be attacking the village soon to get Ada. She was chosen also because she one who also accepted Bortuo as an ally. Upon completing the upgrades Boruto's sword, she returned it to him and explain the specifics for him. Finally, Mamushi arrived, earlier than expected. Shikamaru contacted the team through Inojin's Mind Body Transmission Formation. He explained the Human God Tree's Division ability and began coordinating the team against the threat.

Ultimately, as Boruto led the Mamushis to Ada with the goal of killing them all together with Daemon's aid, each of the Mamushis across the village followed. Sumire was confused by this, but Amada surmised that the Divisions had a hive mentality, knowing all that the others did. As their plan failed, Kawaki recklessly tried to finish them off himself, his body overheated from all his excessive modifications, much to Sumire and Amado's concerns. The remaining Mamushis, now filled with survival instinct, multiplied into the thousands.

As the Mamushis continued their relentless pursuit of Ada, Injoin was summoned to the field, transferred his mind into a Mamushi. As all the Mamushi suddenly stopped, Sumire realised that the Amado's theory was correct. With the Mamushis sharing a hive mind, Inojin's control of one subsequently gave control of all the Mamushis. Inojin then directed killing intent on Daemon so he would reflect it back on the Mamushis and destroy their eyes, the only means for Mamushi to continue dividing. Following this, all the Mamushis collapsed and disintegrated.

Soon after, Sarada was brought to the hospital due to over-usage of her Mangekyō Sharingan. Sumire helped Sakura with Sarada's checkup. When Sarada awoke, after it was determined that Sarada's eyesight had deteriorated, Chō-Cho joined her friends, admitted that Sarada and Sumire were right to trust Boruto. As Sumire joined in the conversation, it was made clear that Sumire no longer wanted to be called "Class Rep".

 In Other Media 
 Video Games 

 Trivia 

 Even after graduating from the Academy, Sumire's friends continue affectionately referring to her as , due to having been such in their class at the Academy.
  means violet.
 Like Sakura, Sumire is also called the most intelligent kunoichi of her generation.
 According to character trivia from Boruto: Naruto Next Generations:
 Sumire's hobbies are saving money and making Tsukemono.
 Her favourite food is fried bread crusts.
 She doesn't have a least favourite food due to her previous poverty.
 Her attributes are: 160 in chakra, 140 in intelligence, 120 in perception, 100 in negotiation, 90 in dexterity, and 77 in strength.
 She was also given a skill rating in these particular areas:
 Sniping: ★★★★☆
 Marksmanship: ★★★☆☆
 Operating Machinery: ★★☆☆☆
 Those Who Illuminate the Night of Shinobi! further elaborated on this concept, and included the following skill ratings:
 Mental Resistance: ★★★★☆
 Observation: ★★★★☆
 Manners: ★★★☆☆