Title: Suna Reincarnated Shinobi
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Suna_Reincarnated_Shinobi
-----------------------

This shinobi was reincarnated by Kabuto Yakushi to steal the KIA scroll during the Fourth Shinobi World War.

 Personality 
He was a violent man who enjoyed fighting. Despite being controlled by Kabuto, he was glad to be brought back, even expressing a desire to keep fighting the Allied Shinobi Forces. He was overconfident due to his reincarnated body, feigning distress when being injured to mock his opponents, and disrespecting his own teammates over differences of opinion.

 Appearance 
He was a tall and muscular man with dark skin, whose face was painted white and red in the style of a kabuki mask. He wore the standard Sunagakure flak jacket over his bare torso, brown pants and a pair of sandals, as well as gloves and a forehead protector.

 Abilities 
In life, he was remarkable enough that Kabuto decided to reincarnate him. He was significantly burly,  enough to push back three shinobi at once and wielded a long-handled axe. Unencumbered by injuries over his condition, he was able to fight recklessly, killing many opponents with his overwhelming strength. He could also create a shadow clone.

 Part II 
 Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation 
Kabuto reincarnated him and a Kumo shinobi to assist Hayate Gekkō in retrieving a KIA scroll containing intel sensitive casualties, such as kekkei genkai bearers. He and the Kumo shinobi engaged in combat with the Logistical Support and Medical Division while Hayate retrieved the scroll. On their way back to Kabuto, they were intercepted by a team lead by Sukui. He used a shadow clone to fight Sakura and Yokaze, injuring the latter with his axe. When he was injured by Sakura, Iō placed a huge rock with a Sealing Tag on top of him, sealing him.

 Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax 

Later, with the release of the Impure World Reincarnation technique, a light of sorts encased his sealed body as the technique was dispelled and his soul was returned to the afterlife.