Title: Suzaku (minister)
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Suzaku_(minister)
-----------------------

was a minister in the Land of That, ages before the establishment of ninja.

 Background 
Suzaku visited the Land of Ancestors to confer with its lord, Tenji. The Land of That claimed to have discovered an ancient document that determined a lake in the Land of Ancestors' territory near their border actually belonged to the Land of That. Suzaku wished to have control of it turned over to him, and would return in a few days for Tenji's answer. He also mentioned having heard of Kaguya. A few days later, Suzaku brought a few archers to the border of the two countries, hoping to incite a conflict the Land of That could retaliate to with their bigger army. He and Genbu brought a great army to the border the following night. Suzaku received word from a spy that Kaguya was being moved to the capital, and wished to seize her as soon as possible. Suzaku gave the order to capture Kaguya, and led the assault himself. He was impressed by her beauty, but upon witnessing her slaughtering of his men when he ordered them to capture her, his admiration turned to horror. The next day, he arrived at the peace negotiations with a court lady as his witness of Kaguya's killing of his men, and demanded Tenji uphold his decree of killing anyone who attacked the Land of That. When Genbu asked about him, Suzaku dismissed his concern, intending to leave the pursuit of Kaguya to the Ancestors, while they took the rest of the country. He and Genbu began taking over the country that night, but they along with their army were taken by Kaguya's Infinite Tsukuyomi and bound to the roots of the God Tree.

 Personality 
Suzaku was a very selfish, manipulative and deceptive individual. He would fabricate evidence to back up his claims for property he desired and purposely incite conflict between countries in order to attack them with retaliation as an excuse, while taking advantage of circumstances to further his goals. Suzaku was used to having whatever he wanted as fast as possible, and being smitten by Kaguya's physical beauty, he led his men in an attempt to capture her. However, his shallow love turned to horror when she easily slaughtered the soldiers with her powers.

 Appearance 
Suzaku had long brown hair and small black eyes.

 Trivia 
  means "Vermillion Bird", one of the four mythological creatures in the Chinese constellations.