Title: Suzu Sōgi
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Suzu_Sōgi
-----------------------

is an Academy student of Konohagakure. She is the twin sister of Ran.

 Personality 
She is a rather curious girl, any news about her classmates picking up her interest. She also acts in sync with her brother, simultaneously and with the same facial expressions, surprised by another rumour. She and Ran are competitive with one another, and yet still close to each other as they are apprehensive about spending time apart.

 Appearance 
Suzu is a short girl with purple eyes and shoulder-length red hair. She wears a white suit with a red turtleneck underneath and a pink scarf tied around her neck. True to her name, Suzu wears two white bells in her hair.

 New Era 
 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

Suzu attended the Academy opening ceremony as part of a new class. Her classroom was put under the care of new teacher Hana Kaka. Her class included many children of famous people, including the daughter of an acting duo, the daughter of the Seventh Hokage, and Kae Yukiwari, the princess of the Land of Bamboo. The class also included Kawaki, a noticeably older student.

Later, she attended a tea party at Kae's home. After Kae angrily scolded Osuka Kamakura for forcing her friend to ruin the tea party, Suzu and the other classmates openly applauded Kae, finding her true outspoken side more enjoyable than the prim and proper demeanour she had been hiding behind.

Days later, Suzu and Ran joined a group of students who wanted to investigate the Academy's Seven Mysteries at night. They fled the group when Batora faked one of the mysteries using Water Release and red pain in a bathroom. The following day, Suzu and Ran told their other class-mates about their experiences. During a practical lesson, Suzu was placed in a team led by Eiki alongside Neon, their team placing first during a Tree Climbing Practice relay race.

Suzu's class had to put on a play about the Sannin. When Eiki's struggle with Kawaki damaged the stage, Suzu joined in the repair efforts.

The day of the festival, the twins made use of their experience with the Seven Mysteries to create a great haunted house booth along Harika and Neon. When the festival received a terrorist threat, they stayed inside.

Later, following Hana being hospitalised from the terrorist attack, Suzu joined her class in welcoming back their teacher. To make up for the festival being cancelled, Hana arranged for the class to undergo survival training on an uninhabited island. However, Kikuchiyo was injured and their food supplies vanished, stoking fear about a rumour of killer missing-nin settling on the island. Everyone formed groups to scavenge food, and later to look for Neon's damaged drone. By night, everyone enjoyed their food.

Attracted by an explosion, the class encountered Kawaki and Himawari, who revealed that Hana, actually an assassin, had killed Kae. Himawari pointed out that her actions made more sense if Hana wanted to keep Kae as a hostage. Working together, the students tracked Kae and Hana to a cave. Finding the situation too dangerous for the students, Kawaki revealed himself as a shinobi, and credited them for helping find Kae. Eiki still believed there was something they could do, leading them to the docks, hoping to get word of the situation out. They came across Sai, who came to the island with Team 25 after discovering Hana's Land of Bamboo background. Upon finding Hana defeated, her teacher personality struggled against the assassin one, eventually prevailing with the encouragement of her students and regaining control. As Kae had to return home, the class finally put on the Sannin play, and later saw her off at the train station.

 Trivia 
 Suzu means .
 Suzu and Ran, when combined, forms the word , the word literally means "Lily of the Valley".