Title: Sōsha Amino
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Sōsha_Amino
-----------------------

is an Academy student of Konohagakure.

 Personality 

A very upbeat and talkative girl, Sōsha is quite gossipy, frequently updating others on recent developments. She is a rather informed person, readily telling her class-mates what she knows about their higher profile members. She has great interest in uncovering mysteries, but is likewise easily scared into running away from the challenge.

As a writer for the Academy paper, she takes her job on it very seriously, acting as an investigative reporter, even pretending to have a microphone while questioning people, also taking care to fact-check what she writes. Due to her passion for journalism, Sōsha tends to publish stories even if it embarrasses her classmates, as she ran a story about Eiki Fūma secretly reading the "Icha Icha" series.

 Appearance 
Sōsha Amino is a short girl with short red hair that is combed to the right side. She has grey eyes and short, round eyebrows. Sōsha wears an oversized pink sweater with a shirt collar sticking out from underneath, along with light blue jeans and a pair of sandals. She carries a dark blue backpack.

 Abilities 
Sōsha writes for the Academy paper. Likewise, she apparently is highly skilled in intelligence-gathering, shown from her in-depth knowledge of various clans and recent events.

 New Era 
 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

Sōsha attended the Academy opening ceremony as part of a new class. Her classroom was put under the care of new teacher Hana Kaka. Her class included many children of famous people, including the daughter of an acting duo, the daughter of the Seventh Hokage, and Kae Yukiwari, the princess of the Land of Bamboo. The class also included Kawaki, a noticeably older student.

Later, she attended a tea party at Kae's home. After Kae angrily scolded Osuka Kamakura for forcing her friend to ruin the tea party, Sōsha and the other classmates openly applauded Kae, finding her true outspoken side more enjoyable than the prim and proper demeanour she had been hiding behind.

When she told her class-mates about the Seven Mysteries of the Academy, Sōsha and a few other students decided to investigate them at night. When Kawaki and Batora faked the first mystery, Sōsha abandoned the investigation in fear. After the other students finished the investigation, she decided to write about it in the school paper. Later, for a practice team competition, Sōsha was put on the same team as Himawari Uzumaki and Kae, the two agreeing that Kae should be team leader. At the end of the various tests, their team's collective scores won first place.

Later, Sōsha's class prepared a play about the Sannin. She published a story about Eiki reading a book from the Icha Icha series to better understand Jiraiya. Eiki approached her, claiming to have discovered that Kawaki was an actual shinobi, showing her an anonymous note he received. She agreed to write a story about it if he could provide physical evidence. During a rehearsal, Eiki tackled Kawaki, attempting to grab his real forehead protector, but Osuka, who had overheard them talking about it, switched it for a prop one. Sōsha accused Eiki of trying to get her to publish a fake story, and later helped repair the damaged set.

On the day of the school festival, Sōsha went around taking several photos, intending to make an album about that event. When the festival suffered a terrorist threat, Sōsha stayed inside. Following the attack, Sōsha joined several of her classmates to visit Hana on the hospital. Later, she was approached by Kawaki, Himawari, and Eiki, who wanted to check on her festival photos. She was suspicious of their intentions, but relented after Eiki claimed he was looking for someone he had a crush on. The next day, she published a story about it, embarrassing him.

Later, following Hana being hospitalised from the terrorist attack, Sōsha joined her class in welcoming back their teacher. When Hana arranged for the class to undergo survival training on an uninhabited island, Kikuchiyo being injured by a trap and their food going missing stoked Sōsha's fear of rumours that killer missing-nin had settled in the island. Sōsha later helped look for food, and for Neon's damaged drone.

Attracted by an explosion, the class encountered Kawaki and Himawari, who revealed that Hana, actually an assassin, had killed Kae. Himawari pointed out that her actions made more sense if Hana wanted to keep Kae as a hostage. Working together, the students tracked Kae and Hana to a cave, Sōsha recalling an old edition of the Academy paper with an article on people who lived on the island. Kura brought the issue, having intended to read it, which allowed Sōsha to check it and narrow down where Hana might have taken Kae. Finding the situation too dangerous for the students, Kawaki revealed himself as a shinobi, and credited them for helping find Kae. Eiki still believed there was something they could do, leading them to the docks, hoping to get word of the situation out. They came across Sai, who came to the island with Team 25 after discovering Hana's Land of Bamboo background. Upon finding Hana defeated, her teacher personality struggled against the assassin one, eventually prevailing with the encouragement of her students and regaining control. As Kae had to return home, the class finally put on the Sannin play, and later saw her off at the train station. Sōsha told her to write them regularly.