Title: Taiko Uchiha
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Taiko_Uchiha
-----------------------

was a character in Jiraiya's novel within Tsunade's Infinite Tsukuyomi dream.

 Personality 
Taiko believes that by harshly punishing criminals and villagers, the motivation for further crimes gets prevented early, thus justifying his ruthless behaviour towards thieves, but also defenceless villagers. Like a lot of his comrades, he thinks that Fugaku Uchiha's policies are too soft and favours his admired lieutnant Sasuke Uchiha's harsh methods. His loyalty to his clan led him to violate the Hokage's orders and even threaten his wife. Taiko justifies his actions by believing it is for the sake of the Uchiha clan.

 Appearance 
Taiko has black hair which is tied to a ponytail at the back of his head. He wears a black shirt with the Military Police Force's emblem on the back, black shorts with a shuriken holster on his right leg and bandages under it. He also wears black gloves, dark blue sandals and a blue forehead protector. On the back of his waist, he carries a sword with him.

 Abilities 
Being a member of the Military Police Force, Taiko is either a skilled or at least promising shinobi. The fact that he used a sword against Kushina implies skills in kenjutsu.

 Part II 
 Jiraiya Shinobi Handbook: The Tale of Naruto the Hero 

Taiko and his fellow comrades notoriously established order in Konohagakure under the orders of his lieutenant Sasuke, with Taiko enjoying the villagers' fears a lot. However, when he violently attempted to arrest an old woman, he was interrupted by the Hokage's son Naruto Uzumaki. Seeing his lieutnant being intimidated by his old friend's newly acquired strength, Taiko tried to ask him about what to do, to which Sasuke ordered him to act more independently.
Soon Taiko and his fellows realised that letting the Hokage's son go led to the Police Force losing respect among the villagers, so they took it upon themselves to break into the Hokage's home to settle things, which ended in a failure and was deemed by the Police Force's leader Fugaku an "idiotic behaviour". All the while, Taiko assured to have acted for the clan's sake before being brought into custody. Some time later, while Konohagakure was imprisoned by Nagato, Taiko was ordered to secure the civilians alongside the rest of the Police Force.

 Trivia 
 "Taiko" means  or . It also refers to .