Title: Taiki
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Taiki
-----------------------

was a citizen of the Land of Water.

 Background 
Having not been born on land, Taiki had lived most of his life in open waters. During his years of sailing, he would occasionally encounter pirates, but managed to get by, from either evading or bribing them.

 Appearance 
Taiki was a middle-aged man of tan complexion and grey hair. He wore a typical fisherman's attire. 

 Personality 
Taiki was a carefree man with a passion for boating. He was apparently somewhat of a drunk from his constantly flushed face. Despite this, he was a responsible individual, willing to do what is needed, having sacrificed his precious ship to succeed on a mission, though he did expect compensation for such sacrifices.

 Abilities 
Taiki is an experienced boatmaster.

 New Era 
 Great Sea Battle of Kirigakure Arc 

After the attack at the Shinonome ceremony by the Funato clan, Team 7 hired Taiki to sail them and Kagura Karatachi's team to Dotō Island, where Team 5 and Scientific Ninja Tools researchers from Konohagakure were located.

The next day, the group was stopped by a Funato boat. Taiki nearly bribed their passage into their territory until Kawaki exposed their presence due his seasickness. Taiki told Kawaki to throw the Funato clansmen off the boat and used his boat's short boost to help in their escape. The boat later caught up with them, and rammed at Taiki's boat, damaging it. Taiki rammed his boat the Funato mobile fortress as a distraction at Kagura's request, who wished to assist Boruto, Buntan, and Kawaki, who had infiltrated it.

After the Chakra Cannon on the fortress was destroyed, Taiki and the others drifted for a time on a lifeboat. They were rescued by their allies, who had stolen a Funato ship. Taiki was tasked with steering the ship to Kirigakure. During the night, he was killed by Kobanza of the Funato, who had hidden himself inside one of the Dotō Island refugees.

 Legacy 
As Taiki was killed by usage of Kabutowari, the blame for the murder was directed on Kyohō Fuefuki. After the true culprit was found, it allowed for Kyohō to open up more about his past and form a trusting relationship with the Konoha-nin of Team 5 and Team 7.

 Trivia 
 Depending on how it's written, "Taiki" can mean any of the following:
 Written as 大気, it means "atmosphere".
 Written as 待機, it means "being on alert".
 Written as 大器, it means "person of great talent".

pt-br:Taiki