Title: Tamaki
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Tamaki
-----------------------

is a young girl who works at a shop in an abandoned city along with her grandmother, Nekobaa. They live with a lot of cats, including talking ninneko such as Denka and Hina. She would later move to Konohagakure to settle with several cats.

 Background 

In the anime, it was shown that Team 7 was assigned to collect the last paw print for the Paw Encyclopaedia which she brought to her grandmother. Also, she and her grandmother helped Team 7 by lending them cat ears to sneak into the Cat Fortress of Nekomata.Naruto: Shippūden episode 189

 Personality 
In the anime, Tamaki was shown to have had a crush on Sasuke Uchiha when she was a child. She seems to be a caring person, even towards strangers like Jūgo.

Despite Kiba's convenient bluffs at the beginning, Tamaki fell in love with him. Despite not marrying, they are happy together despite occasional cat and dog related arguments.

 Appearance 
Tamaki has long brown hair reaching below her waist as well as hazel eyes. She wears a sleeveless red blouse, light-coloured pants, fishnet stockings as well as sandals. She also had bandages wrapped around her upper left hand. It was shown that as a child, her hair was shoulder-length and she wore an orange sleeveless blouse with a dark red shorts, fishnet stockings, and sandals.

About two years after the Fourth Shinobi World War, Tamaki wears a short sleeveless kimono with short pants. Many years later after she stays in Konoha, Tamaki wears an orange light kimono with a green obi.

 Part II 
 Itachi Pursuit Mission 

When Sasuke and his team went to the shop in order to stock up on items for their battle against Itachi Uchiha, Tamaki attempts to find clothes for Jūgo. She reprimands her grandmother for telling her to wrap him in a curtain.

 Blank Period 
 Konoha Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding 

Tamaki ran into Kiba, Akamaru, and Shino Aburame as they were searching for the Beekeeper, leading her to diffuse a situation they were having with ninneko, Momo. As Kiba was left in a love-struck stupor with her appearance, Tamaki happily led them to the Beekeeper's location while Kiba began to successfully gain her affection (through blatant lies and convenient truths). When they arrived in their location, Tamaki warned the trio that no one ever left the fogged bamboo forest. Once they entered, Kiba boasted his superior abilities to ease her worries.

 Rai no Sho 

Upon first meeting Kiba Inuzuka in Konoha, Tamaki and Kiba have gained interest in each other, with Akamaru interfering.

 New Era 
 Konoha Shinden: Steam Ninja Scrolls 

Kiba and Tamaki alongside their pets attend the Cat-Dog Festival, to visit the hot springs. While arguing over which hot spring to visit first, the pair bump into Mirai Sarutobi, Might Guy and Kakashi Hatake. The couple was quickly recognised by the townspeople for their respective reputations as animal breeders. Kiba quickly enjoyed all the praises he was getting from the dog lovers, which began to cause a rift between Kiba and Tamaki, as both began getting as competitive as the town over which animal was better. Wanting to help the couple, but seeing Kiba was too caught up in all his fans, Mirai gave Tamaki an apology letter disguised as written by Kiba. The effort backfired from her lack of understanding in cats, which Kiba would have, causing Tamaki to join the cat-loving villagers in a fight against the dog-lovers. Mirai then used a genjutsu in the form of a Cat-Dog spirit to calm the townspeople, making them think it was a sign to stop fighting. With the feud over, Kiba and Tamaki made up, decided to go to one of the hot springs as they originally wanted.

 Versus Momoshiki Arc 

On the day the Five Kage spectate the Chūnin Exams in Konoha, Tamaki watches the fights beside Kiba and Akamaru.