Title: Tarui
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Tarui
-----------------------

is a kunoichi of Kumogakure.

 Personality 
With her appearance and sharp gaze, Tarui overwhelms everyone around her with a different atmosphere and contends with a clear state of mind.

 Appearance 

Tarui has dark skin (light in the manga),Boruto chapter 3, page 20 yellow eyes and considerably long blonde hair which reaches to her ankles, with two long bangs framing her face. Her attire is typical of a Kumogakure ninja, with white flak jacket and dark-coloured undershirt and pants. Her sleeves are mismatched, with the left sleeve being significantly longer than the right, covering her arm, which prevents her enemies from predicting her movements.Zai no Sho, page 52 Additionally she wears a black lapel around her waist, as well as bandages around her right arm and ankles. Her forehead protector is worn like a knit cap.

 Abilities 
In the anime, Tarui appears to be a close-range combatant, opting to use a lariat in combat.

 New Era 
 Versus Momoshiki Arc 

Alongside her squad mates Yurui and Toroi, Tarui's team travelled to Konohagakure to compete in the Chūnin Exams. Following attending the entrance ceremony for it, the team ran into Team Konohamaru. Afterwards, their team raced towards the first round's exam venue alongside the other participants. Bypassing all the traps on their route, the team made it to Exam Venue B. There, the team participated in a true or false question, which resulted in all competitors falling into a pit that contained a pool of ink. As the three avoided falling into the ink, the team passed the first round of the Chūnin Exams.

Three days later, for the second round of the exams, Tarui's team competed in a game of capture the flag against Team 15. After capturing the enemies' flag, her team proceeded to the final round of the exams. On the day, all participants were pitted against each other in single fights, leading to Tarui being matched up against Sarada Uchiha in the third match. Three seconds into the fight, Sarada punched Tarui into the arena's wall using her enhanced strength, leading to Tarui being defeated and subsequently eliminated.

 Trivia 
 "Tarui" means "bored" in Japanese, which is fitting as Kishimoto designed her to match her name.
 Although Tarui does not appear directly in the games, she is mentioned in Yurui's profile in Naruto Mobile.