Title: Tatsunami
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Tatsunami
-----------------------

is a criminal from Land of Water.

 Background 
Tatsunami was previously a miner, later leaving that life behind to become a criminal. When gold was discovered on Dotō Island in the Land of Water, he and his accomplice, Sakanami went under the guise of helping mine to steal it.

 Personality 
Tatsunami is a rather greedy and cruel person who took advantage of the naive nature of his boss, who did not check his criminal past and allowed him to work. He was very concerned about the success of the gold theft operation, which made him very unhappy with the appearance of shinobi from Konohagakure who could foil his plan. Tatsunami has shown dislike for the young ninja, outright calling them fools. Despite the fact that he and Sakanami fight seemingly on an equal footing, it seems that Sakanami is under a little pressure from his comrade, which is especially noticeable when Tatsunami did not help his partner during his defeat by Metal Lee but decided to save the gold instead. 

 Appearance 
Tatsunami is a rather large man with short brown hair and a beard. While working in the mine, he was dressed in blue overalls and a grey turtleneck. In addition, he wore massive boots, gloves and a white helmet with a flashlight on his forehead.

 Abilities 

Tatsunami is a ninja and possesses the Water Release, being able to perform complex chakra-intensive techniques such as the Water Release: Water Dragon Bullet Technique. He also proved himself to be a good tactician, devising a plan to escape the mine through a crowd of miners and a group of shinobi on the spot, when he realised that his previous plan to steal the gold was close to failing. While escaping, he captured Ōnami and wielded a large knife with which he was able to easily deflect a kunai thrown at him by Metal Lee, and also showed taijutsu ability by quickly attacking the former boss with an elbow in the stomach, but during hand-to-hand combat against Metal and Iwabee, Tatsunami couldn't do anything and was defeated by two genin-level shinobi.

 New Era 
 Great Sea Battle of Kirigakure Arc 

Tatsunami was in the mine with a group of other workers when Ōnami brought Denki's team. He asks where the chief was, and when he receives an answer and realises that his plan to steal gold is failing, he and his partner take the gold from the cache and escape, locking the chief and the others inside the mine. Tatsunami and an accomplice go down to the beach and prepare a hovercraft for the escape. However, thanks to Denki's robots, Team 5 catches up with the criminals, who manage to swim away. Denki decides to use the autonomous puppets in a new way, and they slow down the boat with their elongated arms, and then cover it with a net. Tatsunami increases the power of the boat and they almost manage to escape, but Iwabee breaks the engine with his stone hammer. The boat capsises and Tatsunami decides to fight for his gold, but is quickly defeated.

 Trivia 
 "Tatsunami" could be a shortening of either of the following:
 Tatsunamigai (タツナミガイ), meaning "wedge sea hare".
 Tatsunamisou (タツナミソウ), meaning Scutellaria indica, a species of skullcap.