Title: Tazuna
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Tazuna
-----------------------

is a master bridge builder from the Land of Waves.

 Personality 
Blunt and sometimes harsh, Tazuna has been described as a diligent man. He is also a drinker. Despite deceiving Konoha into believing the mission was less dangerous that it actually was, Tazuna was willing to guilt-trip the shinobi into carrying it through. Even knowing how risky it was to defy Gatō, he was willing to build a bridge that would free his village from his influence and was moved when his grandson also came to defy Gatō.

 Appearance 
Tazuna is a grey-haired, bespectacled man with a large beard and dark eyes. When first introduced, he wore a sleeveless V-neck shirt with an obi, pants, and a pair of sandals. He also carried a towel around his neck and wore a pointed hat on his head that was unique to the Land of Waves.Naruto Anime Profiles, Vol. 1, page 213 When seen in Part II, Tazuna wore the same attire including of the towel, a habit Inari has started to mimic.

 Part I 
 Prologue — Land of Waves 

He resolved to build a bridge that would connect the Land of Waves to the mainland to help restore its economic stability, which was against Gatō's interest. He knew that Gatō would try to kill him, but couldn't afford proper protection. It was because of this that Tazuna hired Team 7 under the false pretence of protecting him from bandits (this was considered a C-rank mission, thus reducing the cost). Unlike most of his fellow citizens, Tazuna was brave enough to defy Gatō's interests, although he was perfectly aware of the consequences. 

During Team 7's stay, Tazuna told about a man who appeared in their lives called "Kaiza" highlighting that he and Inari were very close but when Gatō arrived he had him executed, he told them and that's why Inari stopped smiling. The next morning, they found the injured workers standing before them, with Haku and Zabuza standing before them. Tazuna simply watched. When he saw Sakura crying and reciting the ninja code through her tears, Tazuna felt sorry for her. He expressed joy when Inari appeared, leading an entire armed village.

In honour of Naruto Uzumaki, and for his example of courage, Tazuna named the bridge the "Great Naruto Bridge" after its completion. He tended to overuse the word "super", which was not reflected in the English version of the anime.

 Part II 
 Pain's Assault 

On the request of Konoha, Tazuna arrived in Konoha, along with Inari, who is now a carpenter, to help rebuild the village. He and Inari have a brief conversation with Naruto, Sakura, and Kakashi.

 Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes 

In the anime, Tazuna is seen along with Inari in Konoha after being freed from the Infinite Tsukuyomi by Naruto and Sasuke.

 Blank Period 
 Kakashi Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky 

Tazuna designed the Tobishachimaru, an airborne ship that would revolutionise the transportation industry. Because of the great fortunes that the Tobishachimaru and similar ships would bring to the Land of Waves, the country's carpenters assisted Tazuna in building it. On the day of the Tobishachimaru's maiden voyage, a team of Konoha-nin led by Kakashi provided security. Tazuna chatted with Kakashi about the ship's capabilities until Kakashi must help a woman aboard. Seeing this, Tazuna spoke to Kakashi about finding a woman of his own and becoming Hokage, finding the two commitments to be quite similar.

 Trivia 
 In Hidden Leaf Village Grand Sports Festival!, Inari and Tazuna were seen in an extremely long line for the bathroom that featured almost every male character.
 According to the databook(s):
 His favourite foods are sake, and inarizushi, while his least favourite food is broccoli.