Title: Team Goji Leader
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Team_Goji_Leader
-----------------------

This shinobi is a genin from Sunagakure.

 Personality 
He is a proud individual, as is evident from the fact that he doesn't like the idea of being ordered around by Shira. He refuses to accept hand-outs. At the same time, he is willing to admit defeat gracefully and push on soon afterwards to accomplish his goals. He is also very sensible and soberly evaluates his chances, realising that even six against six stronger opponents they cannot cope. He does not have good feelings for Gaara and once again reminds Shira of the events that happened because of him, believing that people do not change.

 Appearance 
He is a very large and muscular guy with a bald head and black eyes. His head is covered with a turban, and the lower part of his face is covered with a special mask in the form of dinosaur teeth. His head and shoulders are covered with purple tattoos in the form of thick lines with a sharp end. He always walks with a naked torso, but he has a dark short poncho on his shoulders, gloves with blades on his hands, and he also wears pants with a belt on which hangs bags of weapons and a pair of simple sandals in conjunction with ankle bandages.

 Abilities 
He possesses good leadership skills, being able to command not only his team, but also a team of comrades, leading a total of five people. They unquestioningly carried out his commands, whether it was an order to leave the battlefield, or give their scroll to an opponent. He is discerning and evaluates the opponent's skills to put pressure on his weaknesses, as he did with Rock Lee. He also showed some skill in tactics, setting up traps with many Explosive Tags, which created an explosion so powerful that huge crevices were formed through which Rock Lee could only cross using Eight Gates.

 Ninjutsu 

He has a knowledge of ninjutsu, being able to use Wind Release and Yin Release. Combining them, he creates a dome-shaped sandstorm which surrounds the opponent and hinders it from escaping. During the technique's execution, the used sand particles collide against each other, thus creating electro-magnetic waves which place the trapped person under never-ending genjutsu in the form of characterless beings attacking with kunai. While the target is busy fending these illusions off, it is vulnerable for attacks from the outside, what his teammates used and fired water shells at the victim.

 Weapons 
His main weapon is gloves, each with two blades. With their power, he fights in close combat, trying to cut the enemy. In addition, he is good at dealing with kunai, accurately hitting the Shira, and also tried to kill Rock Lee with their help. Also, in his own words, he uses a lot of Explosive Tags.

 Interlude 
 In Naruto's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths 

He, alongside his team, participated in the joint Chūnin Exams. He and his team were one of the few who managed to qualify for the second round. The next day, the second exam proctor — Temari, announced the start of the second round taken place within Demon Desert.Naruto: Shippūden episode 398 Following a plan set by Shira, Goji's team evaded Team Guy while Shira's team set a trap for the Konoha-nin. After seemingly removing the Konoha-nin from the exam, Shira's team regrouped with the other Suna-nin with plans to make sure all the Suna-nin teams advanced to the next round. However, he and his team refused to work alongside Shira anymore. He and the other Suna-nin then attacked Shira's team to take his scroll. As Shira's team was pinned down, Team Guy appeared and drove he and the other Suna attackers away.Naruto: Shippūden episode 399

Despite setting a large trap to keep enemies from following them, Team Goji Leader and the others were soon pursued by Rock Lee. As the team quickly recognised him as a taijutsu specialist like Shira, they kept him at bay with genjutsu before attacking him from afar. Soon afterwards, Lee's teammates and Shira's team arrived to save him. After the Goji and the other Suna-nin were defeated, Shira surprisingly asked Lee's team to spare them. The Suna-nin were all shocked at how quick to forgive Shira was. As Shira explained that he admires Gaara so much for changing his life through perseverance and intends to do the same, Shira offered his exam scroll on the grounds that he was defeated before. Team Goji however declined, instead giving Shira and Team Guy their respective scrolls as they lost this fight. Noting their own pride, they were still determined to pass the exam by getting a new heaven and earth scroll from other teams before leaving.Naruto: Shippūden episode 400

 Trivia 
 Studio Pierrot's settei sheets show that the tattoos on the back of his head are depicted in the form of stripes, which was specially made to look like a Velociraptor, and the dinosaur teeth mask was made like the teeth of the Tarbosaurus.
 It is also known from there that his tattoos were made with elite body paint from the Rumi store.