Title: Teguse (game)
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Teguse_(game)
-----------------------

is a missing-nin of Konohagakure and a member of Zero.

 Background 
A former member of the Scientific Ninja Weapons Team, he deserted the unit whilst stealing several items and the records of those sealed during the Warring States Period.

 Personality 
Teguse is egocentric to the extreme, believing his creations to be superior.

 Abilities 
Teguse is a highly intelligent scientist, having inventing and perfected the Artificial Sharingan, a cybernetic eye that replicates all the abilities of the authentic Sharingan, and even exceeds the latter in certain capacities. Likewise, he created the Ninja Heroes game system through which Nanashi Uchiha casts her Tsukuyomi. 

He also has descent surgical skills, able to transplant a pair of his cybernetic eyes into Merz. 

 Plot Overview 
Katasuke Tōno reports to the Seventh Hokage, Naruto Uzumaki and his advisor, Shikamaru Nara that Teguse stole various Scientific Ninja Tools while with the Scientific Ninja Weapons Team, a scroll called the History of Warring States Seals, and Teguse participated in some inhumane experimentations. This puts Konoha in high alert where Naruto puts chunin and jounin level personnel on missions with time limits instead and for genins to stay at the village. Naruto then makes direct contact to a mini camera planted in the Hokage office near the Second Hokage's portrait allowing Teguse to know what is going on and to confirm Naruto's suspicions. 

Teguse and the Zero organization caused anarchy and chaos that almost lead to the Fifth Great Shinobi War, but it was thwarted when Hinata tells Boruto what has happened. Boruto, Sarada, Mitsuki, Sasuke, Katasuke, Shikadai, and Inojin were unaffected due to the moment the fake Infinite Tsukuyomi was casted later in the day earlier, they were in the virtual game with Sasuke protecting himself with his Susanoo. Sasuke ordered Boruto to retrieve Naruto's memories back with Toneri's help, the rest of the group to investigate and find Zero's hideout, while Sasuke goes to stop Naruto. 

Everyone succeeds in their tasks but Zero wasn't done. Merz and Teguse captures Katasuke, Shikadai, and Inojin when they tried to find Zero's hideout. Mitsuki and Sarada stayed behind to leave a trail for Boruto to rescue his comrades. After Boruto arrives, Boruto orders Mitsuki and Sarada to go back to the village to get backup. Teguse tries to finish them off with Boruto who was able to help free Nanashi Uchiha psychologically. This failed as Naruto arrived and saved his son and Sasuke saved the captured Katasuke, Shikadai, and Inojin. Teguse tries to flee when Boruto, Naruto, and Sasuke were victorious but he was found by the rest of the Five Great Nations ninjas who blocked his escape and subdued him.