Title: Tekkan
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Tekkan
-----------------------

is the current daimyō of the Land of Lightning.

 Appearance 
Tekkan is a large, dark-skinned man with grey hair that has triangles on each side of his head and bangs that look like lightning. He has yellow eyes, flared eyebrows, and a bushy mustache. Tekkan wears a white shirt, a red scarf around his neck, and a black jacket with golden epaulettes on his shoulders.

 New Era 
 Shikamaru Shinden: A Cloud Dancing in Forlorn Falling Petals 

Tekkan attended the Five Great Countries Summit, convened in response to the looming invasion of the Land of Flowers by the Land of Earth. Because the Land of Lightning has an alliance with Flowers, Tekkan was opposed to the invasion and believed the justification offered by the Earth's daimyō, Danjō, was insufficient. Danjō retorted that the Land of Flowers was not worth debating over nor protecting from invasion, and alluded to the Raikage, Darui, feeling the same way. Tekkan admitted that Darui was "insolent", but otherwise did not respond to Danjō's claim.

As an alternative to the invasion, the Land of Fire's daimyō, Ikkyū Madoka, offered to surrender some of his country's territory to the Land of Earth; the Earth would gain the fertile lands it desired, and war would be averted. Tekkan was intrigued by the idea, especially when Ikkyū proposed allowing all countries - not just the Five Great Shinobi Countries - to offer their opinions at a Continental Summit. Tekkan and the other daimyō agreed to this letting the Land of Flowers' fate being decided there.

 Great Sea Battle of Kirigakure Arc 

In the anime, Tekkan was invited to the unveiling ceremony of Kirigakure's new power plant, Shinonome 1. Following the ceremony, Tekkan was frustrated that Awaji Unabara was riding the first aircraft with other wealthy industrialists while he rode the second.

 Trivia 
 Despite being named in the novels, Tekkan is credited as  in the anime credits.
 Tekkan's name can mean   or .