Title: Ten-Tails (Kara)
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Ten-Tails_(Kara)
-----------------------

This  is a juvenile tailed beast in Kara's possession,Boruto chapter 38, page 3 that is kept immobilised in a dimension only accessible via space–time ninjutsu.Boruto chapter 35

 Appearance 
The beast largely resembles Earth's Ten-Tails in its first form. While considerably smaller, it is still massive, comparable in size to the nine tailed beasts. It has a large, egg-shaped head with small spikes protruding from the top alongside a single spike on its chin, as well as a large mouth containing human-like teeth and a single eye with black, vein-like markings around it. It appears to have two small arms, as well as ten tails.

 Abilities 
The beast possesses a single red dōjutsu containing several concentric rings and six tomoe, which Sasuke Uchiha identified as a Rinnegan.Boruto chapter 35, page 31 It presumably has a massive reserve of chakra, as Isshiki Ōtsutsuki would take some when necessary. Being a tailed beast means the Ten-Tails is a living form of chakra, in which Code compares it to moulding clay, allowing him to break off pieces which then can form into smaller humanoid beings that are much more nimble. Code also applied his Claw Marks onto these beings, allowing them to have access to these portals.Boruto chapter 72, pages 38-41

 New Era: Part I 
 Kawaki Arc 

Upon being discovered by Sasuke, the beast was approached by Isshiki. Failing to bite Jigen, Isshiki stated it was too soon for it to eat him, leading to him absorbing the Ten-Tails' chakra to strengthen himself.

Code was assigned to guard the Ten-Tails, in which nothing notable happened, leading to both him and the beast to fall asleep. It was not until Isshiki's death did his lingering spirit instruct Code to feed either Kawaki or Boruto to the beast to bloom into the God Tree. At the same time, Momoshiki intended to find this beast in order to feed Kawaki to it so he could claim the chakra fruit for himself.

When Code was betrayed by Ada and Daemon, he retreated to the Ten-Tails' holding pen, and decided to use the beast to destroy his enemies. He used his Claw Marks to tear off pieces of the Ten-Tails, reforming them into smaller humanoid beings to serve as his soldiers.

 New Era: Part II 
 Boruto's Return Arc 

During Code's attack on Konoha to draw Boruto out of hiding, his Claw Grime begin to devour Konoha shinobi, transforming into trees that encase their bodies, but keep them alive. Among those who have been devoured are Bug, Sasuke, Soegi, Moegi and Shinki. After tracking Code to Kara's dimension, Boruto and Code discover that the main body of his Ten-Tails has disappeared and that several humanoid God Trees have emerged, having become self-aware and bearing visages resembling individuals devoured by the Claw Grime. They declare that they are no longer driven by their instinct to consume chakra and are more interested in satiating their newfound curiosity by acquiring knowledge, though they remain fated to one day devour Boruto.