Title: Teru
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Teru
-----------------------

is an underling of Aniki.

 Background 
Teru and Oppo failed to pass the exams at the academy and become genin. They went to different jobs, but each time they were fired, and in the end, when they had absolutely nothing to eat, they joined Aniki.

 Personality 

Teru is a rather weak person, obeying Aniki because he took him under his wing, despite being constantly belittled by him, and considers himself a failure. He was scared of retribution when he realised he had also kidnapped the Hokage's daughter. Despite turning to crime, he has no stomach for harsher violence or deception, readily giving information about Aniki in conversation with a supposed hostage. After being arrested, he seemed willing to try turning over a new leaf.

 Appearance 
Teru is a short young man with black eyes, very sparse eyebrows, and dark Mohawk hair. He wears a one-piece black sleeveless jumpsuit and a yellow vest. Teru also wears black gloves, elbow pads, and sandals.

 Abilities 
Teru failed his Academy exams, indicating a lack of mastery over basic shinobi skills. However, he was able to swiftly stalk and discreetly kidnap Osuka and Himawari before anyone else could notice, and move around the city with them undetected.

 New Era 
 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

Teru and Oppo stalked Osuka Kamakura from afar, and kidnapped her and Himawari Uzumaki when they left the Academy together. At an abandoned warehouse, they waited for Aniki to arrive, arguing about how Himawari's presence complicated their plans. When he did, Aniki punished them from deviating from the plan. They later talked to Osuka and Himawari about their situation, until Aniki warned them not to volunteer any more information. When they dozed off, Himawari and Osuka freed themselves, and Osuka tied up their feet. When they wake up during a struggle between Aniki and Himawari, they fail to talk him down. After Kawaki defeated Aniki and they were all arrested, Himawari checked in on them, and they promised to start over after serving their sentence.

 Trivia 
 His name is the Japanese spelling of "tell", which refers to his talkative nature.