Title: Third Mizukage
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Third_Mizukage
-----------------------

The  was the third leader of Kirigakure.

 Background 

He accompanied the First Mizukage to the first ever Five Kage Summit. There he stood behind the First watching diligently as the proceedings unfolded.Naruto chapter 648, pages 6-11

He would later succeed Gengetsu Hōzuki as Mizukage after his death in battle against Tsuchikage Mū.

 Appearance 
He was a tall man with black sclerae, no visible pupils, and long, black hair which reached down to his back with what appeared to be pearl-shaped objects encircling his head. He wore the standard Kirigakure attire complete with pinstriped arm and leg-guards over which he wore a sleeveless haori with ragged ends and a poncho-like scarf around his neck. At the time of his death, he had aged considerably, with notable creases, visible frown lines around his mouth, and much lighter-coloured hair.

 Abilities 
Though the Third Mizukage's abilities remain mostly unknown, the fact that he was chosen as the Kage of his village, suggests that he was the most powerful shinobi of Kirigakure in his time, as the village chooses only the strongest warrior as its leader. Even before becoming the Mizukage, his power was such that he was chosen to be the bodyguard of the First Mizukage. As the role of Mizukage is traditionally passed onto the strongest swordsman of the village, it can be inferred he had great kenjutsu skill.School Trip Bloodwind Records pages 75-76

 Part II 
 Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes 

Subsequent to Kaguya Ōtsutsuki being sealed by Naruto Uzumaki and Sasuke Uchiha, he and the other deceased Kage were summoned from the Pure Land by Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki to aid him and the Hokage in summoning Team 7, the tailed beasts, and Madara Uchiha from Kaguya's dimension. Later, his and the other Kage's souls were returned to the Pure Land.

 Trivia 
 He was the only bodyguard of the first Kage during the First Five Kage Summit that didn't become the Second Kage of his village, although he did eventually become the Third.