Title: Tobirama Senju
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Tobirama_Senju
-----------------------

was a member of the renowned Senju clan, who, together with his elder brother and the Uchiha clan, founded the first shinobi village: Konohagakure. Throughout his lifetime, Tobirama would work tirelessly to achieve political stability and implement the institutions that made the village system work, thus ensuring Konoha's continuity and prosperity. After his brother's death, he would earn the title of .

 Background 

Tobirama was born during the Warring States Period, and was the second of Butsuma Senju's four sons. He and his brothers grew up on the battlefield waging constant war with their rivalling clans especially the Uchiha. After the deaths of their brothers: Kawarama and later Itama, Tobirama and his older brother, Hashirama, decided a new shinobi system would need to be implemented to end the cycle of child deaths — a system that would require an alliance between the warring clans.Naruto chapter 622, page 11 At some point in time, it became apparent that Hashirama got into the habit of disappearing into the forest for extended periods, and as such, Tobirama accepted his father's assignment to follow Hashirama and find out what he was doing.

From tracking Hashirama, Tobirama discovered that he was meeting with a boy named Madara: a young Uchiha. After Tobirama reported this to their father, Butsuma pressured Hashirama to lead Madara into an ambush to be carried out by himself and Tobirama. Upon springing the trap, however, they were met by Madara's family — who had similar plans and while their fathers clashed — Tobirama fought Izuna Uchiha: Madara's younger brother.Naruto chapter 623 Hashirama and Madara were able to negotiate a temporary ceasefire, allowing all of them to walk away without bloodshed. In the years following their families would continue to clash, Hashirama against Madara and Tobirama against Izuna. On one occasion Tobirama eventually mortally wounded Izuna.

Hashirama, by then the leader of the Senju, tried to use Izuna's fate to broker peace between their clans, but Madara — at Izuna's behest — refused. His refusal increasingly became the minority view, with individual Uchiha siding with the Senju in growing numbers. After Izuna succumbed to his injuries, Madara, wracked with grief, made one final stand against the Senju and was summarily defeated. Tobirama attempted to kill Madara to finally end the fighting, but Hashirama stopped him, knowing that would only renew hostilities between the Senju and Uchiha. Madara offered to surrender if Hashirama would kill himself or Tobirama.Naruto chapter 624 Hashirama agreed to take his own life, and as he made preparations he instructed Tobirama, despite his protests, not to seek retribution. Madara ultimately withdrew his request and agreed to peace.

The Senju, the Uchiha, and all their affiliated clans came together to found Konoha, a village of peace where children would never need to die in battle.Naruto chapter 399, page 6 Although Hashirama was optimistic about the village's future, Tobirama remained realistic about how that future would be achieved knowing that it was not enough to simply bring all these clans together. He believed the Uchiha — Madara in particular — threatened that future. When Hashirama wanted to give Madara the position of Hokage, Tobirama forced him to open the selection to a democratic process rather than appointing a leader, leading to Hashirama's election instead.Naruto chapter 625 Tobirama would continue to act as the voice of reason throughout Hashirama's tenure; during the first Kage Summit, Hashirama wanted to give Konoha's tailed beasts to the other newly-formed villages for free, but Tobirama insisted that the villages pay for the tailed beasts they received.Naruto chapter 648, pages 6-11

Under Hashirama's leadership, the new system of ninja villages achieved peace for a time. Eventually, Tobirama started training his own three-man team consisting of Hiruzen Sarutobi, Homura Mitokado, and Koharu Utatane.Naruto chapter 122, page 16 Techniques he had created, such as the Shadow Clone Technique and Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation, he outlawed, their use no longer being needed. But peace would ultimately be temporary as Madara challenged Hashirama's authority and the two fought at what would become the Valley of the End. When Madara was killed in the battle, Tobirama took his body in order to study the Sharingan, and then buried it in an unmarked grave.Naruto chapter 681, page 13 Conflicts would start emerging elsewhere in the world, and it was during one of these that Hashirama would die. Before his death, he passed the title of Hokage to Tobirama and left him instructions to not mistreat the Uchiha.Naruto chapter 619, pages 11, 17

Tobirama's role as Hokage included helping Konoha's shinobi transition from valuing their clan above all else to valuing the village and everyone in it. To this end he created such institutions as the Academy, the Anbu, and the Chūnin Exams. While largely successful, enough that other villages adopted the same organisations, the Uchiha resisted the loss of their autonomy. Already wary of the Uchiha because of his history with Madara, Tobirama created the Konoha Military Police Force for the Uchiha to run, publicly as a sign of trust but primarily so that the Uchiha could focus their energies into something beneficial. Others, however, would come to see this as a way to marginalise the clan.Naruto chapter 619

Like Hashirama before him, Tobirama tried to foster good relations with the other villages. He planned an alliance between Konoha and Kumogakure, but during a formal ceremony he and the Second Raikage were attacked by the Gold and Silver Brothers and left near death. During the First Shinobi World War, Team Tobirama, as well as Danzō Shimura, Torifu Akimichi, and Kagami Uchiha found themselves surrounded by Kumo's Kinkaku Force. With no way for all of them to escape, Tobirama volunteered to act as a decoy in place of Hiruzen. As he departed, he passed the title of Hokage to Hiruzen,Naruto chapter 481, pages 4-10 before being killed by Kinkaku.Naruto chapter 529, page 11

 Personality 
Tobirama was a stern man who spoke bluntly about most topics, never sugar-coating facts or the matter at hand. He had a pragmatic approach to life, believing that many of the world's problems could be solved through well-defined rules and laws. Fitting his pragmatism and adherence to order, Tobirama believed the Shinobi Rules were absolute, and despised any deviation from their edicts. Though his words could often come off as rude or insensitive, Tobirama himself was relatively calm and composed, rarely getting riled up or reacting emotionally. It was this that allowed him to act as a sort of counter-weight to his older brother, Hashirama's ideals, when Hashirama would get carried away with his headstrong optimism, it fell to Tobirama to mediate and force a more realistic alternative in order to achieve those idealistic goals. Hashirama was typically disappointed by Tobirama's intervention, but he usually agreed without much protest.Naruto chapter 648, page 10 But Hashirama would, at times, push back against Tobirama, often because Tobirama's methods were becoming too forceful; Hashirama's rare displays of anger on such occasions were enough to make Tobirama back down.Naruto chapter 627, page 6 Despite how often he needed to undermine his brother and his personal opinion that Hashirama was something of an idiot,Naruto chapter 648, pages 4 Tobirama greatly loved and respected him, and if anything wanted Hashirama to respect himself the same way he and others did.Naruto chapter 625, page 4

Tobirama was a firm believer in the Will of Fire — a philosophy that held that all villagers of Konoha were part of a family. As Hokage, it was Tobirama's responsibility to protect that family, and any who threatened Konoha were subject to his rarely-seen but unbridled rage.Naruto chapter 620, page 5 He modelled his own leadership after both Hashirama and Madara Uchiha, trying to strike a balance between Hashirama's indulgent nature and Madara's ruthlessness in order to protect the village. Tobirama wished for the villagers, with their disparate backgrounds, to move away from the tendency to only think about their clan and instead think of the village as a whole.Naruto chapter 627, page 4 It was for this reason that he came into conflict with the Uchiha so frequently, as he felt they too often valued their own desires over others'; he believed Madara was the worst example of this tendency.Naruto chapter 619, pages 7, 10 Although Tobirama truly hoped that the Konoha Military Police Force would help the Uchiha focus on the village, he was not surprised when they instead took it as an intentional slight, when that in turn led them to plan a coup against Konoha, and when the planned coup brought about their near-extinction. Despite this distrust against the Uchiha,Naruto chapter 625, page 19 Tobirama was ready to cooperate with any clan member that could overcome their "Curse of Hatred"; he cited Kagami Uchiha as a prime example of such an Uchiha.Naruto chapter 627, pages 4-6

Though they only knew each other for a short time, Tobirama and Minato Namikaze, the Fourth Hokage, got along superbly. Their mutual respect for each other seemed founded on their similarities: both of them famously moving and thinking quickly on the battlefield.Naruto chapter 631, pages 4-5, 8Naruto chapter 639, pages 3-5 While their actual personalities were quite different, Tobirama was nevertheless amused by Minato's quirks, such as his complicated names for techniques, notably the "Spiralling Flash Super Round Dance Howl Style Three".Naruto chapter 641, pages 7-8 With Minato's son, Naruto Uzumaki, Tobirama was more frustrated than anything else: Naruto did not address him with the proper honourifics and failed to recognise him as the creator of certain jutsu, such as the Flying Thunder God Technique, which Naruto instead believed to be Minato's creation.

 Appearance 

Tobirama was a fair-skinned man with silver, shaggy hair and dark-coloured eyes (depicted as red in the anime). He had three red markings on his face, one under each of his eyes and one on his chin. In combat, he wore blue armour with a distinctive white fur collar over a simple black suit. This armour was constructed from numerous metal plates, formed into multiple protective guards along his body. Beneath his shoulder armour he wore two extra shoulder guards on each arm. This clothing was accompanied by sandals and a happuri in place of the more traditional forehead protector. The happuri was initially engraved with the Senju's emblem, which was later replaced with Konoha's. 

In his official Hokage portrait, Tobirama was seen wearing the usual all-white haori with a blue kimono underneath.Boruto: Naruto the Movie His casual outfit was a simple, short-sleeved, blue shirt kimono with mesh armour underneath and held closed by a pale yellow sash. This casual attire included blue pants and a bracelet of sorts on his left hand.

As a child, he wore a pair of pin-striped pants and shirt which left his arms exposed. He also did not have the markings on his face.Naruto chapter 622, pages 8-9 In battle, his armour was constructed from green metal plates that covered his torso, lower behind, and groin alongside fishnet armour around his wrists and shins.Naruto chapter 623, pages 16

 Abilities 

Tobirama was renowned as one of the most powerful shinobi in history, earning praise from even his rivals.Naruto chapter 661, page 8 He was able to kill Izuna Uchiha — Madara Uchiha's brother and equal in both skills and power.Naruto chapter 624, page 9 Danzō Shimura stated that Tobirama's prowess was unmatched during his time as Hokage.Naruto chapter 481, page 8 He was able to survive an ambush from the Gold and Silver Brothers — a fearsome duo that were able to fully demonstrate the power of the Treasured Tools of the Sage of Six Paths, which is said to surpass the Five Kage  along with the Nine-Tails's chakra that allowed them to enter version 1 and 2 forms.Naruto chapter 527, pages 4-5 

 Chakra and Physical Prowess 
During his lifetime, Tobirama was hailed as the fastest shinobi. When reincarnated without his full power, he was capable of moving fast enough to cover Obito Uchiha who had just become the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki with explosive tags, as well as mark him for his Space–Time Ninjutsu all unnoticed. His reflexes were equally impressive as his Shadow Clone was able to grab a Truth-Seeking Ball mid detonation and teleport it back on Obito before it could explode.Naruto chapter 641, pages 1-4 In the anime, Tobirama is shown moving equally quickly while underwater. He was adept enough in taijutsu to compete against his former student, Hiruzen, who is known for his absolute mastery of all shinobi skills.

His chakra reserves were large enough to teleport two Tailed Beast Mode users simultaneously,Naruto chapter 645, pages 8-11 and strong enough to visibly affect the surrounding terrain when releasing it.Naruto chapter 620, page 4 His chakra control was advanced enough to perform complex techniques with only one hand seal.Naruto chapter 120, page 2-4 His will was also so strong that nearly-perfected Impure World Reincarnation required enhancements from Hashirama's cells to control him.Naruto chapter 620, page 11 

 Ninjutsu 

As a Senju, Tobirama was skilled in a variety of ninjutsu forms. This included shurikenjutsu and Naruto: Shippūden episode 368 barrier ninjutsu.Naruto chapter 631, pages 8-9 He was highly skilled in Kenjutsu, which allowed him to clash with Izuna on multiple occasions, and in the anime, even mastered wielding the Sword of the Thunder God, a blade with electrical abilities.Naruto episode 105 Developing a variety of ninjutsu, his creations all share the quality of eliminating the need for allies to risk their lives while also weakening the enemy efficiently.Tobirama's Birthday Column This is reflected in his creation of the Shadow Clone Technique, which could aid him in battle to perform actions while he was otherwise preoccupied.Naruto chapter 644, page 14 

Since childhood, Tobirama was an adept sensor.Naruto chapter 623, page 11 By touching the ground with his finger, he could accurately detect the presence and location of targets in the surrounding area.Naruto chapter 481, page 4 He could also sense persons countries away,Naruto chapter 620, page 8 identify a target's ancestry from their chakra signature,Naruto chapter 627, page 15 and even pinpoint a target's exact location while blinded.Naruto: Shippūden episode 367

In the anime, Tobirama was shown to be able to cast genjutsu to lock a target in perpetual darkness that even Hiruzen Sarutobi could not dispel.Naruto episode 72 He also mentioned that he had the ability to send his soul to help a dying Sasuke, and would have, had he not been immobilised by Madara's black receivers.Naruto chapter 663, page 8

 Nature Transformation 

Tobirama was able to use all five basic nature transformations, along with Yin and Yang Release. He excelled at Water Release and was able to create vast quantities of the substance without a present water source enabling him to use high-level Water Release techniques at any given time.Naruto chapter 120, page 4 He was renowned for his ability to create tsunamis to flood the battlefield.Naruto: One Decade, One Hundred Ninja page 48  He was able to form defensive walls or large water dragons with a single Hand Seal each and without a pre-existing water source. He could also shoot high-pressured streams from his mouth to slice through targets,Naruto chapter 646, page 14 or high velocity needle-shaped projectiles to catch an opponent off-guard while attacking their vital points.Naruto chapter 661, pages 15-16 In the anime, he could shape water into tendrils to pull targets down with him to drown them.Naruto episode 71 While not shown he was also capable of forming a large concentrated water lance with tremendous piercing power and attack range.Naruto: One Decade, One Hundred Ninja page 55 

 Space–Time Ninjutsu 

Tobirama's skill with various space–time ninjutsu is well-remembered.Naruto chapter 502, page 12 Using the Flying Thunder God Technique, he could instantly teleport himself and/or other targets to any location marked with his seal or connected to his chakra. Connecting his chakra with others has also allowed Tobirama to monitor a battlefield using their chakra as a source for his technique. When this chakra is shared among many individuals, he can teleport any number of people away from harm. Naruto chapter 650, pages 6 Should he connect his chakra to other users of the technique, Tobirama can make use of their Flying Thunder God seals.Naruto chapter 650, pages 5-6Naruto chapter 673, page 11 By using a marked area or throwing a marked kunai, with precise timing, he could move around an area quickly and strike at the most opportune moment before his opponent could react.

 Summoning 
Tobirama was especially proficient in Summoning Techniques. His most infamous technique was the Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation, which returned the souls of the dead into immortal, regenerating bodies.Naruto chapter 525, page 2Naruto chapter 526, page 17 Tobirama employed this technique to revive fallen enemies on the battlefield, either to extract information or to have them walk back into their own lines and carry out kamikaze-style attacks using the Mutually Multiplying Explosive Tags,Tobirama's Birthday Column another technique he invented which took advantage of the revived bodies' regeneration to create near-infinite chains of explosions. He was said to use it whenever he needed to clear a map.Naruto chapter 561, page 2 Tobirama labelled it a kinjutsu in hopes it wouldn't be used by anyone again.Naruto chapter 118, page 5 It was implied that he never fully-refined this technique as he could only control a small number of reincarnated bodies at onceNaruto chapter 521, page 5 and whose power was limited compared to themselves while alive, both of which other shinobi would improve upon in the future.

 Intelligence 
Tobirama was highly intelligent, serving as the strategic leader of his clan during the Warring States Period and later as the Hokage’s aide following the establishment of Konohagakure. His political acumen strengthened Konoha’s diplomacy and tempered his brother’s idealism, providing the stability necessary for the village’s growth.Tobirama's Birthday Column During his time, he created systems such as the Academy, the Anbu, and the Chūnin Exams that were so successful, that other villages adopted the same organizations. 

His innovative mind also extended to Ninjutsu, having created numerous original and advanced techniques, including the Impure World Reincarnation, Flying Thunder God Technique, and Shadow Clone Technique. These techniques were designed to efficiently weaken opponents while minimizing the risks faced by his allies during wartime.Tobirama's Birthday Column

In battle, he was calculating, striking only when he's confident of success and without any thought of mercy.Naruto chapter 624, page 16 He was known for launching surprise attacks on opponents who think they've won and have let their guard down. In order to capitalise on every possible advantage, he pays careful attention to every aspect of a battle, analysing his opponents' strategies and techniques to discern their purpose, mechanics, and ultimately their weaknesses. He discovered that the Truth-Seeking Balls were capable of permanently damaging reanimated shinobi, nullifying their regeneration, and advising the Fourth Hokage to steer clear of them.Naruto chapter 642, pages 4-5 He also analysed his comrade's abilities to create counterattacks, using strategies that made maximum use of the techniques he created. He was similarly knowledgeable of skills he has no training in, being able to recognise a toad from Mount Myōboku and their senjutsuNaruto chapter 642, pages 14-16 or different types of advanced nature transformations.

 Part I 
 Konoha Crush 

Orochimaru invades Konoha so that he can kill his master, Hiruzen Sarutobi. Because Orochimaru wants Hiruzen to experience the same thrill of fighting a teacher as he is, he reincarnates Hashirama and Tobirama. Recognising Hiruzen and seeing how old he has gotten, Hashirama realises how long he's been dead. Tobirama, meanwhile, realises that they've been brought back with the Impure World Reincarnation, and therefore will have no choice but to fight Hiruzen. Orochimaru suppresses their personalities and forces them to attack.

Hiruzen struggles to land an attack against Hashirama and Tobirama, their coordination and responsiveness offering him few openings. The few attacks he does land are merely regenerated by their reincarnated bodies. Because killing Orochimaru will not end the Impure World Reincarnation, Hiruzen uses the only option he has left: after creating two shadow clones, he has a clone capture each of the deceased Hokage and use the Dead Demon Consuming Seal on them. With their personalities restored, Hashirama and Tobirama apologise for being such troubles to him, just as Hiruzen apologises for the fate he has sentenced them to. He pulls the souls from their reincarnated bodies, feeding them to the Shinigami.

 Part II 
 Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax 

At the request of Sasuke Uchiha, Orochimaru releases the souls of the first four Hokage from the stomach of the Shinigami and then reincarnates them. After taking in their surroundings, Hashirama and Tobirama are excited to meet Minato, the Fourth, and take him as a sign of Konoha's continued prosperity. When Tobirama scolds Orochimaru for his repeated use of the Impure World Reincarnation, Orochimaru instead blames Tobirama for creating it in the first place. He also blames Tobirama for a number of his other actions as Hokage, such as the Konoha Military Police Force that helped foster Uchiha dissent.

Hashirama reprimands Tobirama for not honouring his instructions to treat the Uchiha fairly. When Sasuke threatens to destroy Konoha, Tobirama feels validated in his treatment of the Uchiha and prepares to attack Sasuke, but Hashirama forces him to stop. When they are told of Madara Uchiha's reincarnation and participation in the ongoing Fourth Shinobi World War, Tobirama cannot be reasoned with and only Orochimaru's refined control of the Impure World Reincarnation stops him. Tobirama is forced to standby and listen as Hashirama explains his personal experiences with Madara and the Uchiha, and adds some of his own experiences after Hashirama's story ends. From listening to the four Hokage, Sasuke decides he doesn't want Konoha to be destroyed, as is Madara's current intention. Orochimaru releases the Hokage from his control so that they can help in this goal, and they set out for the site of the Allied Shinobi Forces' battle with the Ten-Tails.

Tobirama arrives on the battlefield shortly after Minato and compliments his speed. Once all the Hokage gather, they combine efforts to erect a barrier around the Ten-Tails to confine it. Tobirama must stay with the barrier in order to keep it active, so he watches as Sasuke and the Allies attack the Ten-Tails. When Obito Uchiha appears on the battlefield and prepares to revive Madara, Tobirama creates two shadow clones to go after Madara. Minato once again beats him to the punch, cutting down Obito before Madara can be revived.

 Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki 

Not only was Madara's revival not his intention, but Minato's attack was too late: Obito seals the Ten-Tails into himself, becoming its jinchūriki. With his new power, Obito rips down the barrier, allowing the Hokage to finally join the fray. While trying to decide how to proceed, Obito cuts through Tobirama and one of Hashirama's wood clones. While the clone restrains Obito, Tobirama tells everyone else to evacuate the area while he uses Mutually Multiplying Explosive Tags. The attack has no effect, and Hiruzen and Minato engage Obito while Tobirama regenerates. Once restored, he sends a shadow clone to redirect a Truth-Seeking Ball that's been attached to Minato back to Obito, having earlier branded him with a Flying Thunder God seal.

Tobirama, Minato, Sasuke, and Naruto Uzumaki coordinate efforts to attack Obito with Flying Thunder God Mutually Instantaneous Revolving Technique, but Obito emerges without damage. What's more, from observing that Minato has not regenerated an arm lost to Obito, Tobirama theorises that Obito's Truth-Seeking Balls can nullify the advantages of the Impure World Reincarnation and all other ninjutsu. In a blind gamble, Gamakichi attacks Obito with the Starch Syrup Gun, which actually seems to have some success. Tobirama and Naruto separately realise that Obito is vulnerable to senjutsu. After Naruto enters Sage Mode, Tobirama teleports him above Obito so that he can attack.

With a weakness discovered, Obito traps the Alliance within a barrier so that he can wipe them out with multiple Tailed Beast Balls. Tobirama and Minato decide that they can't teleport all the balls away in time, but Naruto comes up with a way for him and Minato to teleport the entire Alliance to safety. Impressed by their combined efforts, Tobirama assists them after they enter Tailed Beast Modes by teleporting them to Obito for another attack. Obito blocks it this time and counters by creating the Ten-Tails' tree form. The tree's roots start tearing through the Allies and, after fending off some of the roots, Tobirama teleports Naruto, Sasuke, Minato, and Hiruzen together to figure out a new plan. Naruto and Sasuke, with Hashirama's encouragement, lead the Alliance in their attack while Tobirama busies himself with teleporting shinobi to safety when they need it.

Although Obito is defeated and the Ten-Tails is removed from his body, Madara is successfully restored to life. While Madara prepares to become the Ten-Tails' next jinchūriki, Tobirama launches a desperate attack to stop him. Madara pins him with multiple black receivers and they share their mutual contempt for each other. Using what little mobility he has, Tobirama attacks him with Heavenly Weeping to distract Madara while Sasuke attacks him from behind. Madara blocks the attack and, over Tobirama's pleas to stop, mortally wounds Sasuke. Madara leaves and Tobirama can only watch as Sasuke's life fades. Shortly afterwards, Kabuto Yakushi arrives in time to save Sasuke. Once he's well, Sasuke removes the black receivers from Tobirama's body and has him teleport him to Naruto's location to face Madara.

 Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes 

Despite their efforts, Sasuke and Naruto cannot stop Madara from initiating the Infinite Tsukuyomi. Tobirama and the other Hokage, being the only ones unaffected, converge at the location of a powerful chakra signature, but find only Madara's lower half. Tobirama contemplates using the Impure World Reincarnation on Madara to ask him what happened, but they are stopped by the Sage of the Six Paths. Combining efforts with the spirits of the other dead Kage, they summon Team 7, Madara, and the tailed beasts back from Kaguya's dimension. Madara, dying, has some parting words with Hashirama, after which the Sage returns all the Kage to the Pure Land. As his soul ascends, Tobirama encourages Hashirama to entrust the future with Sasuke and Naruto.

 Legacy 
Although Tobirama created the Konoha Military Police Force with the intention of pacifying the Uchiha clan, it only exacerbated their feelings of marginalisation and, in effect, cut them off from positions of influence in Konoha. Dissatisfaction with Konoha grew amongst the Uchiha for decades following, eventually culminating in the Uchiha Clan Downfall.Naruto chapter 399, pages 12-13

Tobirama would also be responsible in creating several vital institutions for Konoha such as the Academy, the Anbu, and the Chūnin Exams which would help Konoha bond many of the clans together to fight for Konoha and would also help Konoha foster relationships with the other villages. These institutions were so successful that other villages began implementing their own versions of them in their own nations.

His invention of the kinjutsu Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation would play a major role in the Fourth Shinobi World War and ironically would allow Tobirama as well as the other deceased Hokage the ability to assist the Allied Shinobi Forces in the war after they were reincarnated by Orochimaru at the behest of Sasuke Uchiha. The reincarnated Madara Uchiha himself begrudgingly admitted he was thankful to Tobirama for inventing the technique while fighting the reincarnated Hashirama Senju.

 In Other Media 
 Video Games 

He is also featured as a support-only character in Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm.

 Trivia 

  means "the space between two doors".  are seen as the access to progress and improvement.
 Tobirama's face appears within the fireworks in the ending omake of Shippūden episode 129.
 Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Tobirama show that he was 140 cm around the time Hashirama met Madara.
 Tobirama is the only Hokage never to be shown wearing the hat of office.
 According to the databook(s):
 His favourite words were .
 His favourite food were the fresh fish caught in the clean rivers of Konoha.

 Quotes 
 (To Hashirama and Itama) "Grown-ups are idiots. If they really want to bring an end to this endless fighting, they need to sit down with one another and reach a truce…"
 (To Hiruzen) "Saru, you must protect those who have faith in you and who love the village, and train up to those to whom you can entrust the next generation… from tomorrow, you will be the Hokage…!"Naruto chapter 481, page 9
 (To Sasuke) "My brother believed that the village was something that demolish the boundaries between clans. Well in the end it wasn't that simple… My brother was too soft… and Madara too dangerous… My role as Second Hokage was to mediate between them while protecting and reinforcing the village."
 (About Naruto) "That settles it, I've actually found a bigger idiot than my brother."Naruto chapter 645, page 7