Title: Toki
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Toki
-----------------------

is the daughter of the late daimyō Ōwashi, younger twin sister of Sagi, and the current daimyō of the Land of Birds.

 Background 

Toki grew up with alongside Sagi and Chishima during childhood, where the two siblings often played together by a lake populated with egrets and with Chishima serving as their attendant.Naruto episode 163 She would later stay by Sagi's side following his passing shortly after their father's assassination. Full of grief, Toki nearly committed suicide only for her brother's spirit stopping her, and was given his broken pocket watch before disappearing. Vowing to avenge their family, Toki took up her late brother's name and identity by imitating his voice and keeping her hair hidden. Since then, Toki had lived a double life as Sagi while assuming the identity of the Cursed Warrior to investigate the conspiracy surrounding her father's death.Naruto episode 166

 Personality 
When she disguises herself as Sagi, she seems trapped in the past and focused on avenging her brother and father. After the fight with Mōsō, she seemed more kindly and no longer stuck in the past, now moving towards the future putting the Land of Birds ahead of everything else. She was grateful to Naruto and seems to have feelings for Chishima.

 Appearance 
Toki is a fair-skinned woman with long, dark hair which she wears in a bang, and strands that covers most of her face. She also has large, black eyes and wears red lipstick. In terms of attire, she wears a traditional multi-layered kimono of different colours.

 Abilities 
Toki is seen to be at least adept in using a halberd. She also carries a sword suggesting that she has some skill in kenjutsu.

 Part I 
 Cursed Warrior Extermination Mission 

She posed as her brother Sagi as the daimyō, and assumed the identity as the Cursed Warrior in order to kill Hōki (disguised as the priest Mōsō), the person who had assassinated her brother and father. Toki attempted to attack Hōki, but was defeated, and resigned herself to death, seeing that she was unable to take revenge. Naruto, however, arrived and convinced her to live on for the sake of the Land of Birds before defeating Hōki. After Hōki's defeat, Toki's pocket watch began moving forward again, symbolising her ability to move on. The next day, Toki revealed her deception and apologised to the people of the land, but asked to be allowed to continue ruling the land to help restore it to its peaceful nature. The people forgave her and she continued to rule as herself.

 Trivia 
 Like her father and brother, Toki shares her name with a bird, the Japanese crested ibis. Also, when written as 時, "Toki" means "time".
 Her character is very similar to Koyuki Kazahana and Haruna. All three of them are daimyō, were in disguise, their fathers were assassinated, and endured a tragedy that which made them act cold towards other people until meeting Naruto. All three seemed to grow fond of him as well.

 Quotes 
 (To Sagi, after receiving his stopped pocket watch) "I will definitely avenge you in order to make your frozen time move again."