Title: Tokiwa
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Tokiwa
-----------------------

is a kunoichi and the attendant of Shizuka, the current leader of the Nadeshiko Village.

 Personality 
She seems to have a calm and level-headed personality. Tokiwa praises shinobi who are strong and who impress her, as shown when she praised Naruto for being able to dodge Shizuka's attack. She is also very respectful of and to powerful shinobi as she addressed both Jiraiya and Naruto, as well as Shizuka, using honourifics. She is also quite humble, as she knelt before Naruto to ask him to duel Shizuka. 

 Appearance 
Tokiwa is an imposing figure, easily towering over others. She has a slender physique with a very angular face framed by her short brown hair along with a dark shade of red lipstick. She wears a short, backless, red, full-body suit over mesh armour, along with a pair of arm-length gloves and a light orange sash, a long blue green apron skirt which is open in the front. She also wears bandages on her wrists, covering all of her right left as well as her left thigh and leg. She carries an extremely long and thin katana strapped to her back.

 Abilities 

Tokiwa is able to use Earth Release, as demonstrated when she erected an arena for Naruto and Shizuka to battle in. Since she carries a sword, it can be assumed that she is skilled in kenjutsu.

 Part II 
 Paradise Life on a Boat 
After Kokuyō found them on their way to the Land of Fire, she declares that she would stop him. However, Shizuka tells her that this is her duty and easily dispatches her would-be pursuer. After seeing Naruto who tells her that he is the student of Jiraiya, Tokiwa explains that Naruto would have to battle Shizuka for his hand in marriage as per the agreement Jiraiya had made some years ago. Naruto declined the offer, but Tokiwa tracked him down and told him about Shizuka's past.

After persauding Naruto, who finally agreed that if he defeats Shizuka, he would marry her, Tokiwa creates an arena with her Earth Release: Iron Fist Prison. After the battle is concluded, Kokuyō once again tries to capture Shizuka, but she dispatches him with ease once again. However after Kokuyō's Hundred Puppet Soul Binding is activated, Tokiwa realises that all the puppets and attacks before this were just distractions for this technique. After Naruto rescues Shizuka, they head to the harbour to see them off. Glad that Naruto's words had reached Shizuka, she heads back to the village with Shizuka.