Title: Tonbo Tobitake
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Tonbo_Tobitake
-----------------------

is a chūnin of Konohagakure and a member of the Analysis Team in the village's Intelligence Division.

 Personality 
Tonbo, at first glance, gives off a very collected and cool personality. He is described as being very confident in his abilities, although not haughty enough to not acknowledge someone else's talent. He is also somewhat rash and quick-tempered by nature as witnessed when he roughed up Komaza to get his point across.Naruto chapter 42, page 13

 Appearance 
The upper half of his face is completely wrapped in bandages and his forehead protector is drawn all the way over his eyes. He usually has a cigarette in his mouth and wears the standard uniform of the Intelligence Division, which comprises of a grey suit. He also wears bandages around his legs and the standard Konoha shinobi sandals.

 Abilities 

Not much has been seen in the way of Tonbo's abilities but he is skilled enough to aid Inoichi in delving into the minds of the enemy in order to retrieve potentially valuable information. He is also very fast and strong, able to rush towards Komaza in the blink of an eye and easily restrains him with one single arm, stating that "elite" chūnin like him would not miss anything the genin would try.Naruto chapter 42, pages 11-12 As an examiner, his observation ability was so keen as to not miss a single blink of the examinees.Naruto: One Decade, One Hundred Ninja, page 65

 Part I 
 Chūnin Exams 

Tonbo took part in the written section of the Chūnin Exams as one of the various shinobi looking out for cheaters. When he caught Komaza cheating five times, Komaza protested saying there it was impossible they could keep an eye on everyone and accurately keep track of the number of times they were caught. This caused Tonbo to knock him into a wall, telling him that the people there were "elite" chūnin chosen for this task specifically and that they wouldn't miss a single thing they did.

 Mizuki Tracking Mission 

In the anime, Tonbo and Iwashi Tatami alerted Tsunade about Mizuki and the Legendary Stupid Brothers having escaped prison together.

 Peddlers Escort Mission 

Later in the anime, he accompanied Iwashi, Mozuku, Shizune, and Shikamaru Nara to take the Land of Vegetables from Renga.

 Konoha Plans Recapture Mission 

Tonbo, alongside other shinobi, was told by Tsunade to watch the village in case of an attack.

 Part II 
 Pain's Assault 

Tonbo, along with Shimon Hijiri and Mawashi Dokuraku, aided in Inoichi Yamanaka's Psycho Mind Transmission of Yūdachi. He complimented the speed at which Inoichi could read his memories, although Mozuku harshly scolded him for not concentrating on probing Yūdachi. When Pain's Assault on Konoha started, they helped distract the Animal Path to give Inoichi a chance to analyse what he has learned.

In the anime, Tonbo can later be seen assisting in battle against the Giant Snake-Tailed Chameleon before Pain disperses it.Naruto: Shippūden episode 162

 In Other Media 
 Movies 
 Naruto the Movie: Blood Prison 

During Naruto's flashback to the members of the village when he was gathering natural energy to enter Sage Mode, Tonbo can been seen amongst the villagers.

 Trivia 
  is Japanese for "dragonfly". Dragonflies are famous for their 360° vision, which is ironic considering that Tonbo's eyes and upper face are covered with bandages. While "Tobitake" means "lying [through] the bamboo". A  is a small bamboo toy that flies when spun between the palms of your hands. So Tonbo's full name could also mean "flying taketonbo".
 Gege Akutami, the creator of Jujutsu Kaisen, stated that the design for Satoru Gojo was inspired by a proctor from the Chūnin Exams who wore bandages and a forehead protector over his eyes. While not mentioned by name, Tonbo is the only character who matches this description.
 According to the databook(s):
 His favourite food is yakitori and grilled onigiri while his least favourite food is crème fraîche.
 He is Mawashi Dokuraku's junior.