Title: Tonbee
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Tonbee
-----------------------

is a member of the Tsuchigumo Clan who was left to guard the sacred fortress of his clan.

 Background 
Tonbee was present with Hotaru as En no Gyōja, who was on his death bed, left his duty in restoring the clan's honour to his granddaughter. Prior to En no Gyōja's death, Tonbee was given a scroll that contains information on unsealing the Tsuchigumo Clan's kinjutsu by the former.

At some point, when the man named Utakata was heavily wounded from his confrontation with a group of ninja assailants, Tonbee and Hotaru brought him to their fort for treatment. After Utakata was recovered, Tonbee asked Utakata to stay and protect Hotaru while allowing her be his student, but Utakata bluntly rejected it.

 Personality 
Tonbee is a very calm and collected man with a great sense of duty as well as respect. This was witnessed in his willingness to sacrifice himself to allow Hotaru to escape to safety as well as his unwillingness to abandon the fortress where he was stationed.

 Appearance 
He is an elderly man with short grey hair, a bristling moustache and dark eyes. He wears a simple, v-neck, long-sleeved shirt with a sleeveless coat, a pair of pants and sandals.

 Abilities 
Though not much has been shown of Tonbee's skills, he is seemingly very proficient with trap-setting, using very sophisticated traps that made use of seals, which may mean he is also very proficient with seal-related techniques. He was also seemingly confident enough in his abilities that he remained behind to hold off a group of mercenaries to allow Hotaru to escape. He has also displayed the ability to summon bats.

 Part II 
 Six-Tails Unleashed 

When Mount Katsuragi was attacked by a group of ninja bandits, Tonbee sent a messenger bird to contact Konohagakure for help and had Hotaru take the clan's kinjutsu to their village. Tonbee told Utakata to protect Hotaru. Tonbee confronted Akaboshi and his group where they easily defeat him. They questioned Tonbee of the kinjutsu's location only to discover Hotaru has it and they headed off searching for her. Team 7 came across Tonbee badly injured. Sakura stayed with Tonbee while the rest of the team looked for Hotaru.

Later after his wounds were treated by Sakura, Tonbee woke up with dismay as an incensed Naruto confronted him upon finding out the truth about Hotaru that her grandfather embedded the kinjutsu on her back before Hotaru revealed that she personally asked for it. As Team Yamato informed Tonbee about the Tsuchigumo village that was taken over by the ninja bandits, Tonbee explained the clan's history regarding its kinjutsu and the rift between the clan's village and Mount Katsuragi. After Hotaru also explained her reason to help restore the clan's honour, Tonbee regretfully admitted he feared the Tsuchigumo clan will never regain their former status. Feeling that it would be better to destroy the clan's kinjutsu, he revealed a way to safely remove it from Hotaru's body.

After Team Yamato stopped the ninja bandits and saved Hotaru, Tonbee returned to the Tsuchigumo village where he thanked them for all they've done and bid them farewell.

 Trivia 
 A man bearing a striking resemblance to Tonbee appears in the Labyrinth Game Arc of the Boruto: Naruto Next Generations anime as one of the people kidnapped for Ōga's experiments.

pt-br:Tonbee