Title: Toneri Ōtsutsuki
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Toneri_Ōtsutsuki
-----------------------

is a descendant of Hamura Ōtsutsuki and the sole survivor of the Ōtsutsuki Clan's branch family on the Moon.

 Background 

Toneri was born into the Ōtsutsuki clan's Branch family, leading to his eyes being sealed within the Energy Vessel at birth; in place of vision, he learned to sense the world around him instead. Growing up with his father on the Moon, Toneri desired human friends, unlike the puppet servants that served his family. On multiple occasions, the two would take travel to Earth to secretly observe the Hyūga Clan in Konohagakure, whom descended from Hamura's direct bloodline. Toneri's father at some point suggested that Toneri should someday marry Hinata Hyūga; the latter whom was heiress of the Hyūga clan at the time. When his father was on his deathbed, he encouraged Toneri to forget about the clan's decree and go to Earth to find friends and comrades, to live for his own sake. After his passing, Toneri thought about his ancestor's wishes, leading to him deciding to stay on the moon isolated as the last surviving member of his clan's branch family, with only the clan's autonomous puppets for company.

 Personality 
Toneri carries hatred towards mankind for weaponising chakra and once plotted to destroy humanity as punishment, a goal which he states that the branch family of his clan desired for a thousand years. He usually displays a calm and cool demeanour driven to completing the Thousand Year Plan to wipe out the shinobi world. He has also shown to be hypocritical as, in spite of his hating humanity for using chakra as a weapon, he used it to attack Naruto Uzumaki and the rest of the Hanabi Rescue Team.

From a young age, Toneri has loved Hinata and dreamed of someday taking her as his bride. When he initiated his plan to destroy the Earth, he made repeated efforts to convince her to join him, so that she would not die along with the rest of the Earth's population. After Hinata initially appears to accept his marriage proposal, Toneri does his best to accommodate her, giving her free reign of the castle and promising to share all the castle's secrets with her after they're married. He attempts to bond with her by dining together and requesting that she knit a scarf for him; he takes her agreement to this request as a good sign. At the same time, he remains concerned by her frequent thoughts about Naruto and refuses to listen to her requests that he spare the Earth. When he discovers that Hinata only agreed to marry him as a pretence and a ruse to stop his plans and that, moreover, the scarf she was knitting was meant for Naruto, Toneri became enraged, accusing her of betraying him. Toneri has been shown to be selfish on several occasions: for example, he did not consider how Hinata felt about them getting married and later placed her under his control when he realised she had no intention of marrying him. Despite being in love with her, Toneri did not stop Hinata from leaving once he realised she and Naruto love each other. 

His zealotry made him stubborn as he refused to pay heed to Hinata and Naruto's attempts to convince him to stop his destructive plan, and it took him being saved from a near-death experience for him to be persuaded. After learning that Hamura never wanted to destroy the world, Toneri expressed sincere regret in his actions. Wishing to atone for his sins, he decided that the Moon would never again approach Earth and, as a result, chose to live alone on the Moon in peace. Even years later, while staying away from Earth, he continued to watch over it, seeking to keep the peace for the planet itself.

In the novelisation of The Last: Naruto the Movie, Hinata believes that much of Toneri's personality results from how much of his life he spent living with puppets as his only company: Toneri has a simple view of "good" and "evil" because the puppets couldn't challenge him to develop better critical thinking skills. Although Toneri is only doing what he believes is right, spending so long with obedient puppets has rendered him unable to consider others' views or desires. Naruto considers the loneliness Toneri experienced similar to his own, to the point of thinking he'd have turned out like Toneri if he had lacked the support of Hinata and their friends.

 Appearance 

Toneri is characterised by his pale skin, shaggy white hair, attractive facial features, and six magatama designs tattooed on his collarbones to resemble a necklace. He typically keeps his eyelids closed, as his eyes were ceremoniously removed some time after birth. He later transplanted Hanabi Hyūga's Byakugan into his empty eye sockets, which eventually matured into the Tenseigan; an enhanced version of the Byakugan. After Toneri was defeated, his stolen eyes regressed back into the Byakugan, which were then reclaimed to return to their original owner.

Toneri usually dresses in clothing typical of the Ōtsutsuki Clan, consisting of a white, high-collared kimono with a black obi, over which he wears a pale green sash tied at the right shoulder. On the back of his kimono is the Ōtsutsuki Clan branch family emblem of a yellow crest depicting a sun enclosed in a crescent moon. Beneath his robes he wears black fingerless gloves, long black pants, and black shinobi sandals. As a child, he is shown wearing a similar clothing, consisting of a white kimono, pale green sash, and black sandals.

During his marriage ceremony, Toneri wore a traditional Ōtsutsuki Clan wedding outfit consisting of a grey high-collared tunic and baggy grey pants with a black obi and black shinobi sandals. Overall, he wears a long black sleeveless robe and a dark navy blue sash, which is draped over his right shoulder. Both the tunic and robe are embroidered in gold, with six golden magatama on the tunic's collar and a yellow Ōtsutsuki branch family emblem on the back of the robe. He also wears a matching black turban and a pair of black wristbands.

 Abilities 
Toneri is a powerful individual, possessing chakra similar to Kaguya Ōtsutsuki.The Last: Naruto the Movie Character Promo Page (2014) His prowess being such that he could combat the likes of Naruto Uzumaki while utilising his senjutsu-enhanced Nine-Tails Chakra Mode. Toneri has enough medical knowledge to transplant eyes and treat severe injuries. Similar to his ancestor Hamura, Toneri is able to communicate with others from afar, accomplishing this by entering their dreams.

 Ninjutsu 

Toneri can create a green orb to use for various purposes, such as reading minds, absorbing chakra from a distance, and detonating the orb if needed. He is also able to project images of himself in order to deliver messages, and can manifest his green sphere through his projection. Because his eyes were taken from him as an infant, Toneri instead observes his surroundings by sense, a faster and more detailed way of taking in the world. This perception is great enough that he can watch events on Earth from the Moon.Boruto episode 15 He also has some space–time ninjutsu prowess, as he is able to smooth away distortions.

Toneri has the Ōtsutsuki Clan's army of Autonomous Puppets at his disposal, which act according to his thoughts. While at home, these puppets serve him. In battle, these puppets can be used to quickly overwhelm his opponents. The puppets rely on the Energy Vessel for power, and thus lose all function after the Energy Vessel is destroyed. Toneri can also use the Puppet Technique directly, which he does by placing a sphere of chakra within a target's body. Like the autonomous puppets, he controls his targets with his thoughts.

 Dōjutsu 
 Byakugan 
While born with the Byakugan, like the rest of his clan, his eyes were later sealed away within the Energy Vessel, leaving Toneri blind. Later, Toneri implanted Hanabi Hyūga's Byakugan into his own eye sockets. This allowed Toneri to gain a near 360° field of x-ray vision and the ability to see vast distances, as well as the chakra pathway system. After his Tenseigan reverted back to his Byakugan, Hinata Hyūga took back Hanabi's eyes, leaving him blind again.

 Tenseigan 

Upon implanting Hanabi's Byakugan into his eye sockets, Toneri's eyes matured into the Tenseigan. With these eyes, he can control attractive and repulsive forces that are capable of lifting the rocks of the Moon to use them as projectiles and pull the Moon itself towards Earth without the use of the Tenseigan Energy Vessel. He can also use the Tenseigan Chakra Mode, which grants him enhanced strength, speed, and durability that allow him to fight against Naruto Uzumaki's Sage Mode enhanced Nine-Tails Chakra Mode. His power in this state is such that he was confident that he would survive a collision of the Earth and Moon. He can compress this state into his hand to create a tremendously powerful chakra blast that can deplete someone of their chakra as well as destroy a massive portion of the moon's surface. He could also control a golem that was powerful enough to fight on par with Kurama. Following his defeat by Naruto, his Tenseigan faded away and reverted back to his Byakugan.

Upon activating his Tenseigan Chakra Mode, Toneri can manifest nine Truth-Seeking Balls, granting him all five nature transformations as well as Yin, Yang, and Yin–Yang Release. He can use the balls both offensively and defensively, and attacks by infusing them with his chakra, causing them to glow green. He can rapidly spin them to create a massive vortex and combine them into a giant golden sword of chakra powerful enough to cut the entire moon in half. Toneri is able to divide them into smaller orbs and launch them as a rapid-fire barrage. He also demonstrated the ability to transform one of the balls into an elaborate golden cage after infusing it with his chakra.

 Blank Period 
 The Last: Naruto the Movie 

After determining that humanity has failed to make good use of the Sage of Six Paths' gift of chakra, Toneri decides to wipe out humanity by crashing the Moon into the Earth, per what he believes Hamura Ōtsutsuki decreed centuries earlier. After the world is destroyed, he will then make it anew. Toneri meets with Hiashi Hyūga somewhere away from Konohagakure and asks Hiashi to make a decision, one he says will determine the fate of the Hyūga clan. Hiashi answers by attacking Toneri, only to discover that he is a hologram.

Toneri later sends some puppets to infiltrate Konoha, one of which immediately kidnaps Hanabi and transports her back to the Moon. The other puppet locates Hinata, who is crying alone over a scarf she's knitted, which she says she no longer has a need for. Toneri approaches her as a hologram and offers to take the scarf, explaining that he's come for her. The puppet then restrains her and he knocks her out. Before the puppets can leave Konoha with Hinata, they are confronted and destroyed by Naruto Uzumaki; the scarf ends up being damaged in the process. Afterwards, Toneri's hologram appears before Naruto and Hinata, warning them that the end is near and that, before that day comes, he will return for Hinata.

Once Hanabi arrives on the Moon, Toneri takes her Byakugan and implants them within his empty eye sockets. The Byakugan will eventually evolve into Tenseigan, but this process will take several days and require Toneri to rest regularly. In the meantime, Toneri sends a puppet that resembles him to meet with Hinata, who is on her way to the Moon in order to rescue Hanabi. Via the puppet, Toneri expresses to Hinata his desire to marry her and offers to release Hanabi if she agrees. He explains his reasons for wanting to destroy the Earth, but Hinata refuses his offer and vows to save Hanabi, prompting Toneri to remark that she doesn't know where Hanabi is. He tells her that he'll give her time to consider his proposal.

Hinata and the Toneri puppet are discovered by Naruto, who immediately attacks the puppet. Although it's briefly able to avoid Naruto, he eventually lands a crippling blow. With the last of the puppet's strength, Toneri tells Hinata that next time he will visit her in person. Over the following days, Toneri's puppets give him regular reports on the whereabouts and activities of Hinata and her team, but he stops the puppets from actually engaging with them. Once he starts to feel his Tenseigan awakening, Toneri finally goes to meet with Hinata. Naruto starts berating Toneri upon seeing him, but Toneri ignores him, saying he's only come for Hinata's answer. Hinata gives the scarf she's repaired to Naruto, tells him goodbye, and departs with Toneri.

Naruto is confused by Hinata's behaviour and follows them, demanding an explanation. Toneri informs Naruto that Hinata is accompanying him willingly so that they can get married. While Naruto is stunned by the news, Toneri attacks him, creating an explosion that punches a hole through the Moon's surface. The scarf given to Naruto disintegrates and he begins drifting out into space. Hinata questions Toneri over his actions, to which he replies he did not want to risk her getting hurt. He then knocks her out and takes her back to his castle. He examines her thoughts as she sleeps, but is confused to see she is thinking of Naruto. After she wakes, Toneri takes her for a tour of the castle and its premises, all the while sharing some of his personal history. He explains that they'll be safe from the Moon's collision with the Earth, protected by the Energy Vessel. When Hinata asks where the Energy Vessel is located, Toneri, remembering her thoughts about Naruto, declines to answer.

Toneri must continue resting periodically until his Tenseigan have fully awoken. Until then, he requests that Hinata knit a scarf for him. Hinata agrees. As she works on it she tries to convince Toneri to spare the Earth, but he won't change his mind, eventually instructing her not to bring it up again. After they eat lunch together, Toneri, at Hinata's request, takes her to Hamura's temple to seek his blessing for their approaching nuptials. Hinata becomes interested in a replica of the Energy Vessel that's kept in the temple, so Toneri promises to show her the real thing after they're married. Hinata, however, is able to locate the Energy Vessel on her own, and Toneri catches her in the process of trying to destroy it.

Hinata attempts to tell Toneri that's he's misunderstood Hamura's wishes for the Earth: Hamura wanted the Ōtsutsuki clan to aid humanity, not destroy it. Toneri dismisses this as a lie and concludes that Hinata has betrayed him. He takes her back to her room, locates the scarf she's been working on and, realising she intended it for Naruto and not for him, destroys it. He uses the Puppet Technique on her, placing her under his control. The following day, Toneri  and a mind-controlled Hinata proceed with the wedding. Before he can finish the ceremony by kissing Hinata, they are interrupted by Naruto. Toneri and Hinata retreat to the Energy Vessel's chamber, with Naruto following after them.

Toneri has Hinata attack Naruto. Naruto avoids her and is able to free her from Toneri's control, but Toneri immediately captures her again. Before Toneri can use the Puppet Technique on her once more, his Tenseigan undergoes the final stage of its awakening, overwhelming him with pain. By the time he recovers, Hinata and Naruto have destroyed the Energy Vessel, halting the Moon's collision course. Upon discovering this, Toneri uses his Tenseigan to resume the Moon along its course. He then creates a golem to attack Naruto, Hinata, and the rest of their team with, which Naruto fends off with a manifestation of Kurama. Toneri confronts them as they try to flee, entering Tenseigan Chakra Mode and attacking with Silver Wheel Reincarnation Explosion, ejecting them on to the Moon's outer surface.

After tracking down Hinata, Toneri captures her and imprisons her in a cage, telling her to watch as she kills Naruto. Naruto, using Nine-Tails Chakra Mode, attacks him, and the two trade blows as they pursue each other across the Moon. Toneri uses Golden Wheel Reincarnation Explosion against Naruto, in the process cutting the Moon in two, but Naruto survives. Toneri attacks Naruto's shadow clones with Truth-Seeking Balls and is briefly able to defend himself. Naruto, enraged by Toneri's repeated destruction of Hinata's scarves, focuses his Nine-Tails Chakra Mode into his fist, which he punches Toneri with. Toneri is flung into the distance, his Tenseigan Chakra Mode shatters, and the Tenseigan revert to normal Byakugan. Hinata, now freed, approaches Toneri and plucks out his eyes, to return them to Hanabi.

Unwilling to give up, Toneri draws all the Byakugan that were previously contained within the Energy Vessel towards him, coating himself with them as he's about to use Puppet Reincarnation. Hinata once more tries to tell him Hamura never wanted this, but he ignores her, intent on destroying the Earth. He absorbs Naruto's chakra to fuel his attack, but before he can use it the golem - elsewhere flung away by Kurama - crashes into him and launches him into space. Before the unused power of the Puppet Reincarnation can overwhelm and destroy Toneri, he is rescued by Naruto. With Toneri no longer able to move the Moon, the Earth is now saved. Afterwards, Hinata shows Toneri the Ōtsutsuki clan graveyard, where she learned the truth about Hamura's decree. Toneri finally accepts that he was wrong and escorts them back to the portal to Earth. They invite him to join them, but he opts to remain behind in exile to atone for his actions. He promises Hinata that the Moon will never threaten the Earth again.

 New Era 
In the years that follow, Toneri decides to stand vigil over the Earth as a solitary guardian.Boruto: Naruto Next Generations Novel 3 — Those Who Illuminate the Night of Shinobi! Sasuke Uchiha at some point questions Toneri about Kaguya Ōtsutsuki and her reasons for creating the White Zetsu Army, but Toneri has no answers.Boruto: Naruto the Movie novel

 Academy Entrance Arc 

In the anime, some years later while reading the stars, he noticed a comet passing into a constellation and recognised that a harvest would soon occur, and that Boruto Uzumaki would play a vital role in the fateful events to come.Boruto episode 8

Despite being aware of the existence of Nue, Toneri was unable to personally intervene out of fear of drawing "the enemy's" attention to Earth, and so was forced to help resolve the incident through indirect means. Speaking to Boruto through a dream, he made the boy aware of a special power hidden in his right eye, warning him that he would one day shoulder the fate of the world with it, and that it would guide him to the light that would dispel the impending darkness.

Ultimately, Boruto was able to stop Nue and the gate it opened to another dimension was sealed. With the threat eliminated, Toneri noted that the "Jōgan" would not return for some time, but foretold that this victory was only temporary and that "the gods" would soon arrive on Earth. Recalling his defeat at the hands of Naruto, Toneri marvelled at the "power wielded by the ninja", and was confident that the shinobi would be able to surpass the strength of the Ōtsutsuki as well as the hope that Boruto would one day stand as the pinnacle of their legacy, with limitless potential.

 Graduation Exams Arc 

Toneri later tried to smooth over spacetime distortions, but failed to do so. Gazing at the Earth, he questioned Boruto's battle against fate until the bitter end.

 Versus Momoshiki Arc 

Urashiki Ōtsutsuki eventually found Toneri. He told him that the main family of their clan observed everything over the millennium, including Toneri's attempt at destroying the Earth. Noting Toneri's change of heart and now continued efforts to protect Earth as a result for betraying their clan, he revealed he knew Toneri had done something to Boruto. Aggravated, Toneri charged towards Urashiki but was immobilised by his chakra rod, leading to Urashiki to petrify him in time with the Palace of the Dragon King for ten thousand years as punishment before departing.

 In Other Media 
 Video Games 

 Trivia 
  was a title held by low-ranking servants of royalty and nobility during the 7th century.
 His name may also derive from Prince Toneri, an imperial prince who lived during the Nara period and served as an editor to the Nihon Shoki, referred to as the second oldest book of classical Japanese history.
 According to director Tsuneo Kobayashi, Toneri was originally based on young Johnny Depp as Edward Scissorhands. It was due to Toneri being unable to understand the feelings of others because he lived alone on the moon without human contact since he was young.The Last's Program Guide

 Quotes 
 (To Naruto as his puppet collapses) "Your fist, will never reach me. Never."
 (To Naruto about Hinata's answer) "Give her back? Hinata came to me willingly. This has been destined since ancient times. Hinata and I shall be married."
 (To Hinata about the scarf for Naruto) "Damn it. So you were knitting this for him and not me?!"
 (To Naruto and Hinata) "I will destroy the Sage's world that has fallen into darkness with the light of justice!"
 (To Hinata) "The moon will never approach Earth. Never again."