Title: Tonsuke
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Tonsuke
-----------------------

is a pig.

 Personality 
Tonsuke is a rather arrogant pig who knows that he is one of a kind, and takes advantage of this, being ready to climb a person's head without hesitation. He eats only special food, and at a certain time, and completely refuses to help someone if he is not fed. Tonsuke is also cowardly, as he fled in fear after the appearance of the wolves and the transformation of Wasabi Izuno.

 Appearance 
Tonsuke is a pink pig with salmon pink cheeks. He has a birthmark of his snort on his stomach.

 Abilities 
Tonsuke has a special sense of smell unlike the other pigs. He is the only pig who can find the Gekkōran flower. He is also able to climb a tree, despite the fact that this is not typical of pigs.

 New Era 

Tonsuke was assigned to Shikadai Nara's team to help them find the Gekkōran flower. He immediately behaved arrogantly, which infuriated Iwabee, and then sat on his head and took part in the expedition. After encountering wolves in the forest and seeing Wasabi Izuno's transformation, Tonsuke escaped, but was successfully found in a tree where Shikadai noticed his special birthmark. After arriving at the suspension bridge, Iwabee and Wasabi argued about whether to walk across it or bypass it, with Shikadai deciding to personally carry Tonsuke across the bridge. At the first stagger of the bridge, Tonsuke tried to escape and almost fell into a ravine, but Boruto successfully caught him. After crossing the bridge, the team was confronted by thieves who also wanted the Gekkōran flower, causing them to attempt to kidnap Tonsuke. They used trap littered with knives on Shikadai, injuring his leg, causing him to drop Tonsuke, who ran away. Boruto found him and returned him to Shikadai, but he starts eating mushrooms instead of special food, Shikadai noticed that he didn't have a birthmark and realised there was a switch. He managed to lure Tonsuke aside with food, and Iwabee's Earth Release protected him from the thieves. After the thieves were defeated, Tonsuke successfully found the Gekkōran flower.