Title: Toroi (Genin)
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Toroi_(Genin)
-----------------------

is a shinobi of Kumogakure.

 Personality 
Toroi is an individual that is overconfident in his abilities, proclaiming that he would crush Mitsuki in his match and lost.  

 Appearance 

Toroi is a young bespectacled shinobi with short brown hair over which he wears a bandanna-style forehead protector, and maroon-coloured eyes. 

Like many of the shinobi from his generation that look up to Killer B, he has a blue tattoo of bull's horn on his left cheek. He wears the standard attire of the Kumo-nin: trademark white flak jacket and gloves over a blue underskirt and pants. He also wears white shin guard which are fused with his sandals. Additionally he wears a red rope around his neck like a tie and carries a large shuriken on his back.

 Abilities 
 Ninjutsu 
Toroi can manipulates his large shuriken with chakra and possesses herculean strength. In the anime, he is able to use Lightning Release to further augment his assaults.Boruto episode 58

It is also noted that while he gives off a carefree expression, the fierce attacks that he unleashes must not be made light of.

 New Era 
 Versus Momoshiki Arc 

Alongside his squad mates Yurui and Tarui, Toroi's team travelled to Konohagakure to compete in the Chūnin Exams. Following attending the entrance ceremony for it, the team ran into Team Konohamaru. Afterwards, Toroi's team raced towards the first round exam venue alongside the other participants. Bypassing all the traps on their route, the team made it to Exam Venue B. There, the team participated in a true or false question, which resulted in all competitors falling into a pit that contained a pool of ink. As they were able to avoid falling into the ink, the team passed the first round of the Chūnin Exams.

Three days later, for the second round of the exams, Toroi's team competed in a game of capture the flag against Team 15. After capturing their flag, their team proceeded to the final round of the exams. On the day, all participants were pitted against each other in single fights, leading to Toroi being matched up against Mitsuki, during which he was defeated and disqualified.

 Creation and Conception 
When creating the character Toroi, Kishimoto stated that he wanted to design someone with lazy movements, but was still a ninja.Zai no Sho, page 52

 Trivia 
 "Toroi" means "slow" in Japanese, in respects to both body and mind.
 He shares his name and favoured weapon with a fellow Kumo-nin.
 Although Toroi does not appear directly in the games, he is mentioned in Yurui's profile in Naruto Mobile.