Title: Tsukado
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Tsukado
-----------------------

is a master swordsmen of an unnamed clan who had a vendetta against a man that killed a relative of his, Shikazo.

 Personality 
Tsukado is a rather persistent person who tried to take revenge thirty-four times without deviating from this path, but at the same time he was tired of revenge, just wanting to return home to his mother and father, being ready to deceive other people that he did take revenge. Tsukado is also a very kind and perceptive man, but sometimes he does not understand the words of people the way he needs to, as can be seen in the example of Naruto's "revenge lessons".

 Appearance 
Tsukado has short spiky black hair and large black eyes. He dresses in a light-coloured kimono and very wide pants, tied with a white cloth that serves as a belt. A scabbard with a sword is stuck behind this belt. In addition, Tsukado wears a pair of simple sandals.

 Abilities 
He is noted to be a very talented swordsman, powerful enough to defeat several enemies at once, shattering their weapons. He is even shown to utilise chakra flow when wielding his sword. While using chakra flow to enhance his sword's strength he was able to carve a gash several inches deep in solid stone. In addition, Tsukado has good artistry, being able to quickly and very beautifully draw his opponent.

 Part II 
 Past Arc: The Locus of Konoha 

After Shikazo, a member of his clan, was killed, Tsukado was chosen with the task of avenging him by the killing the man who killed him, Katazu. He failed 34 times to defeat him. One day, Team 7 met Tsukado and seeing his poor revenge skills, Naruto decided to train him. Though his lessons were unusual, he managed to get the upper hand in his next fight with the killer. However, Naruto stopped the fight after noticing Katazu's sword wasn't even sharpened, saying he couldn't possibly have killed his relative. Katazu revealed that it was his twin brother, Kageki who killed Shikazo, but it was an accident. Since then, he had been taking his brother's identity. The Kanabun Gang, who were profiting off their fight, tried to get the two to fight again. But with the help of Team 7, the two managed to chase them out of town.