Title: Tsunami
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Tsunami
-----------------------

is a citizen of the Land of Waves. 

 Background 

Her husband died shortly after Inari's birth, and when Kaiza entered her life as a father figure for Inari, she couldn't help but invite him into her home. Like everyone else in the city, Kaiza's death broke her spirit. In the following years, she tried to protect Inari from the painful memories of losing his stepfather.

 Personality 
She has been described as obliging. She also loves "prettiness". Tsunami also seems to be a very loving mother. Tsunami is a woman of strong will; when she is taken hostage by Gatō's men to threaten Tazuna and they contemplate killing Inari, she threatens to commit suicide so that they spare Inari.

 Appearance 
Tsunami has long dark (blue in the anime) black-coloured hair. She wears a short-sleeved green (pink in the anime) shirt with the end of the sleeves and the collar being in dark green (red in the anime) colour. She also wears a long dark green (blue in the anime) skirt.

 Part I 
 Prologue — Land of Waves 

She is first seen when Tazuna brings Team 7 to her home and she assists with helping Kakashi after his fight with Zabuza. Later she is kidnapped by Gato's men and she threatens to kill herself if they hurt her son. Before she is placed in a position that would force her to go through with her threat, Naruto Uzumaki saves her and Inari from Gatō's men. After that she tries to convince Inari to not go to the bridge, but after seeing the resemblance of Inari's confidence to Kaiza's, she joins him and the townspeople to help the battle at the bridge.

 Trivia 
  literally translates to "harbour wave".
 Tsunami and Inari make a brief cameo appearance in Naruto episode 161.
 In the English anime, Tsunami does not threaten to commit suicide, but instead she tells Gatō's men that she will do "whatever they ask of her" because they are threatening Inari.
 According to the databook(s):
 Her hobbies are making western-style clothing, and gardening.

 Quotes 
 (To Inari) "Inari, say hello to these people. They are ninja who protected Grandpa."Naruto chapter 17, page 10