Title: Tsurugi
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Tsurugi
-----------------------

was the head of Kirigakure's hunter-nin.

 Personality 
He was a calm and level-headed man as seen when he readily and rationally decided to speak to Utakata and Yamato in private. He even tried, albeit unsuccessfully,  to convince Utakata to return to Kirigakure.

 Appearance 
He had long black hair and beard and bore a scar over his left eye. He wore the standard attire of the Kirigakure ninja which included a flak jacket, shinobi sandals, a black Kirigakure forehead protector and a mask as he was a hunter-nin.

 Abilities 

Being the head of Kirigakure's hunter-nin, Tsurugi was likely one of Kirigakure's strongest shinobi. His full potential was not shown, but he was seen using Water Release and could hide in rain which he could summon around himself. Befitting his Anbu status, Tsurugi was skilled in stealth, capable of surprising even a skilled member of Konohagakure's Anbu with his sudden appearance. Like all members of his group, Tsurugi wears a tantō on his back, which indicates the practice of kenjutsu.

 Part II 
 Six-Tails Unleashed 
After escaping from the Magaki Group, Utakata and Hotaru were found by the group of hunter-nin, who revealed themselves to be after Utakata for killing his master and fleeing his village. Team 7 arrived to save them and, discovering that they're after Utakata, Yamato tried to negotiate with them. Tsurugi revealed himself and decided to have a talk with Yamato and Utakata alone. Tsurugi said to Yamato his unit will free Hotaru and will hold off their capture of Utakata until Team 7's mission is complete. After that, he spoke with Utakata alone, where he tried to convince him to return to the village. With what his former master did to him, Utakata refused, and Tsurugi argued that his master had only tried to free him from that "thing", though Utakata still refused to believe it. Once their talk was over, Tsurugi and his unit left and said they will be watching them.

When Utakata pondered on if Tsurugi was telling the truth, he went to search for him. Tsurugi, noticing Utakata was looking for him, went to see him but he and his unit ran into the Animal Path of Pain's Giant Multi-Headed Dog, and were killed. When Utakata tried to find him again after the ninja bandits were defeated, he stumbled upon Tsurugi's blood stained mask before Pain approached him, and realised what had happened to Tsurugi.

 Trivia 
  means "double-edged sword".

Fr:Tsurugi