Title: Tsuzura Shitakiri
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Tsuzura_Shitakiri
-----------------------

is an apprentice caretaker to the famed Senri Hawks.

 Background 
Being raised solely by his business-obsessed mother, Tsuzura spent all his time in her establishment, unable to make friends. Instead of going to school, Mozu decided to teach him personally to groom him as the successor to her business, despite refusing to teach him things like reading and writing. At some point, Tsuzura found a rare, white hawk chick that was injured. He cared for and raised it as his pet, naming her Yuki.

 Personality 
Tsuzura is a quiet boy that mostly keeps to himself, much of which stems from his mother's overly strict upbringing. However, he is still kind by nature, grateful for the help others give him. Unlike his mother, Tsuzura likes animals and enjoys caring for them, often cleaning up their cages. With his pet Yuki being his only friend, Tsuzura enjoys helping her grow strong and independent, training her as best he can. Despite having a glamorous future set up for him by his mother, Tsuzura has no interest in it. Instead, he wishes to go to school and learn more about life. However, he is too submissive to defy his mother's wishes.

 Appearance 
Tsuzura is a short boy of light complexion with freckles under his green eyes. He is missing a tooth on the top right of his mouth, and has shaggy, brown hair that covers the left side of his face while the top of his hair is held up in a side-ponytail to the right.

 Abilities 
In his love for animals, Tsuzura is talented in caring for them. He is also a quick learner, having started learning better breeding methods from books and likewise begun learning to read.

 New Era 
 Labyrinth Game Arc 

As Tsuzura was cleaning animal cages again, he saw his mother doing business with Boruto Uzumaki and Sasuke Uchiha. Later, while trying again to help Yuki to learn to hunt, he was approached by Boruto, who was amazed by his white hawk. Despite Tsuzura trying to keep to himself, Boruto offered to help him train Yuki to hunt. When Boruto offered him a book about hawks, he explained he couldn't read or write. Boruto offered to help him learn, much to his excitement. From this, Tsuzura approached his mother about going to school to learn more, but Mozu quickly dismissed this request. Later, as Tsuzura and Boruto's training of Yuki was showing progress, Mozu found them, annoyed at Boruto filling Tsuzura with such "pointless" ideas. Mozu decided to be even stricter with Tsuzura and had Yuki taken away. While Boruto tried to speak up for him, Tsuzura submitted to Mozu's scolding and left with her.

Tsuzura was locked in his room, and told that Yuki would be sold to a taxidermist who wanted to mount her. Mozu also told him of how she started the business. The next day, Tsuzura escaped his room, grabbed Yuki, and attempted to flee. Mozu sent the security officer and wolf after him, but he was protected by Boruto and Sasuke. Mozu threatened Boruto with life in prison if he returned, but Sasuke offered his Senri Hawk in exchange for Yuki and Tsuzura. Mozu accepted, certain that Tsuzura would return as he had no life experience to make it on his own. The security officed accompanied them to the train station. He thought his mother was right about his inexperience, but Sasuke assured him everything would be fine. When Sasuke's hawk returned after releasing all the captive animals, Mozu returned and demanded Tsuzura return him the Senri Hawk. Tsuzura stood up to her. She ordered the security officer to act, but he was now aware of Sasuke was, and told her he was out of her league. Sasuke took Tsuzura for Maruta to take on as an apprentice, and he promised to stay in contact with Boruto.

 Trivia 
 "Tsuzura" (葛籠) means "wicker basket".