Title: Urakaku
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Urakaku
-----------------------

is a samurai from the Land of Iron and one of Mifune's right-hand-men alongside Okisuke. 

 Personality 
Urakaku can be described as a very solemn and dutiful individual as see from him carrying out his assigned tasks to the letter without hesitation.

 Appearance 
He has black hair which he wears in a traditional chonmage style, thick, black eyebrows and similarly coloured eyes. He also has a prominent scar located just above his right eyebrow.

His attire during the Kage Summit consisted of a simple grey kimono-like outfit, with a purple scarf encircling his neck that obscures the lower half of his face and conceals a communicator.

 Abilities 
Since Urakaku is a samurai, it can be assumed that he is skilled in kenjutsu. He has great reflexes, seen when he already reached the grip of his sword before Zetsu even finished emerging out of the ground, while the present shinobi did not react at all.Naruto: Shippūden episode 201

 Part II 
 Five Kage Summit 
When the Fourth Raikage requested that the Kage convene, the Land of Iron is selected as the site of the Summit, with Mifune chosen to act as the meeting's mediator. Assigned to the general's personal protection detail, Urakaku, alongside Okisuke, watched over Mifune as he greeted the Kazekage and his delegation upon their arrival.Naruto chapter 456, page 17

As the assembly commenced their discussions, Urakaku assumed his position to the rear of his leader, where he remained for the entirety of the meeting despite the Raikage's various violent outbursts. However, when the meeting was abruptly concluded due to White Zetsu's intrusion, Urakaku is ordered to inform the other samurai to locate the invading Sasuke Uchiha and make preparations for battle. In response to this instruction, he immediately established contact with one of the senior officers, directing them to mobilise three platoons to the intruder's suspected location.Naruto chapter 460, pages 3-4 Attempting to ascertain if Danzō Shimura's ability was still in effect, Urakaku requests Ao to provide confirmation on the matter, who affirmed that it was no longer being used.Naruto chapter 461, page 10 It is from this position that he observed Sasuke's succeeding confrontation with the Kage, before becoming ensnared by one of Zetsu's clones, when the Black Zetsu activated his Spore Technique. Freed from the technique through Kankurō's intervention, Urakaku listened to Tobi's scheme, and upon the Allied Shinobi Forces' formation, he departed.

 Creation and Conception 
Kishimoto noted that he wanted to make Urakaku the typical, straight-laced character who would give the first impression of having a serious air of gravity. He also noted that there was no seeing his mouth, because it was always concealed.

Trivia
 Both Urakaku and his partner Okisuke have a scar on the right side of their face.