Title: Uroko Kurama
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Uroko_Kurama
-----------------------

was a member of the main branch of the Kurama Clan. She was also the wife of Murakumo Kurama and the mother of Yakumo Kurama.

 Background 
Uroko's daughter and only child, Yakumo, was born with the full scope of the Kurama Clan's Kekkei Genkai, but also with a weak and frail body. As the Kurama Clan had produced few ninja where once they were one of the more prominent clans in Konohagakure, Uroko's husband Murakumo was eager to remedy this predicament sought to change the clan's fortunes around by ensuring their daughter's development into her full potential as a genjutsu-user. Her husband approached the Third Hokage and petitioned for a special tutor to oversee her training, hoping that she could overcome her frail condition by focusing sorely on her genjutsu.

Later, a fire engulfed the Kurama Clan's household and killed both Uroko and her husband, Murakumo. The cause of the fire was Yakumo's own powers; because of the powers she could not control Ido, an independent, sentient and malicious personality that existed within her subconscious could use her powers against her will and started the fire. Uroko's daughter Yakumo, however, unaware of the Ido existence was initially convinced that her parents were killed on the orders of the Third Hokage, Hiruzen Sarutobi, before learning that the deaths of her parents was due to the Ido.

 Appearance 
Uroko had very delicate features and long, smooth silver hair along with light-coloured eyes. She wore a long-sleeved grey jacket with a large red belt wrapped around the waist area. She wore a grey long dress that went down to her feet and she had three different coloured shirts all underneath the grey one. She also wore a necklace.

 Abilities 
She was presumably a very skilled kunoichi, being able to obtain the ninja rank of a jōnin.

 Trivia 
 As with the other members of the Kurama Clan, Uroko's first name is related to clouds. In her case, the  acted as a namesake.