Title: Urushi (summon)
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Urushi_(summon)
-----------------------

is a ninken and a personal summon of Kakashi Hatake. 

 Background 

In the anime, after they made a contract with Kakashi, Urushi and the other ninken aided him to search for the abducted Rin Nohara by the Kirigakure shinobi and acted as a diversion in order to allow them to flee.Naruto: Shippūden episode 371 They also helped searching for the fleeing Orochimaru.Naruto: Shippūden episode 352

 Appearance 
Urushi has white and light-brown fur, along with long spiky tufts of hair on his head. His eyes greatly resemble traditional Japanese angry eyes. Being one of Kakashi's ninken, he wears the standard blue vest with the heno-heno-moheji seal and a Konoha forehead protector around his neck.

 Abilities 

Urushi possesses heightened senses with which he can use to track his target with ease. He has also demonstrated the ability to track his target underground through the use of the Summoning: Earth Release: Tracking Fang Technique as well as hold a target down, allowing Kakashi to attack them freely. He also has has exceptional teamwork with the rest of his pack, able to develop and effectively use several offensive and defensive formations in battle which make use of the manoeuvrability and powerful limbs.

 Part I 
 Prologue — Land of Waves 

Kakashi called on Urushi and the ninken pack to track and capture the missing-nin Zabuza Momochi. They managed to bite onto the missing-nin and pin him in place. This allowed Kakashi to use Lightning Cutter without fear of a counter attack. 

 Sasuke Recovery Mission 

Later, Urushi and his fellow ninken were summoned by Kakashi to track down Naruto Uzumaki and his team who had gone off in pursuit of Sasuke Uchiha.

 Sunagakure Support Mission 

In the anime, he, along with the other ninken, were summoned by Kakashi to investigate the Takumi Village.

 Part II 
 Kazekage Rescue Mission 

At the start of Part II, Urushi and the ninken pack were called upon to track down the Akatsuki member Sasori using a small piece of his clothing. 

 Itachi Pursuit Mission 

Some weeks later, Kakashi summoned the pack to help track down Itachi Uchiha. He and Ūhei were partnered with Sai.

 Five Kage Summit 

In the anime, Urushi was seen along with Akino, Shiba, Bisuke and Ūhei being deployed by Kakashi each carrying scrolls with intel for the other hidden villages.

 Paradise Life on a Boat 

 Blank Period 
 Kakashi Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky 

Kakashi summons Urushi and the other ninken to search for the exploding tags planted around the Tobishachimaru. Once they gather all the tags, the ninken give them to Might Guy.

 In Other Media 
 Movies 
 Road to Ninja: Naruto the Movie 

 Trivia 

 Urushi's fur was initially depicted as being white. It was later changed to light-brown, though in the manga, it has a more blond colour.
  is the Japanese name of the "lacquer tree".