Title: Victor's Secretary
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Victor's_Secretary
-----------------------

This woman was the secretary to Victor at his medical manufacturing company and an Outer of Kara.

 Personality 
She was very loyal to Kara and content with her place in the organisation, reprimanding a doctor for asking too many questions. In battle, she was shown to be very sadistic, mocking her foes anguish and relishing the idea of causing more harm. At the same time, she was shown to be reckless, often underestimating her opponent.

 Appearance 
She was a young woman with dark skin, red and black hair and purple eyes. She wore a purple business attire and had a ruby necklace around her neck.

 Abilities 
She was quite self-confident as she bravely confronted Mugino using only kunai, promising him death. She is very fast, instantly disappearing from the elevator in which she was travelling with Victor. She had enough scientific knowledge to aid and report to Victor in his cultivating of an artificial God Tree.

 New Era 
 Kara Actuation Arc 

She accompanied Victor when Konohamaru Sarutobi and Mugino of Konohagakure visited the company to question their intentions with the cell of Hashirama Senju. Refusing to return the cell, Victor had her escort Konohamaru and Mugino to the border.

Later, she escorted a patient in critical condition to a treatment. She was approached by the doctor who asked about his standing in Kara, which she declined to answer due to their roles as Outers in the organisation.

Later, the Valleys Daimyō arrived for an inspection of the company. As the secretary escorted the daimyō to be "sterilised" for the lab, the daimyō was put under genjutsu. Upon the daimyō being brought to the lab, his guards undid the genjutsu, being revealed as Konohamaru and Mugino who explained the true situation to the daimyō. While the daimyō was ashamed of his blindness to Victor's deceit and agreed to let the Konoha-nin act as needed, Victor activated his experiment, revealing a recreated God Tree that began consuming all targets in the area while he and his secretary escaped.

As Mugino was sent away to save the daimyō as the only credible witness to Victor's crimes, Victor sent his secretary after them. Outside, the secretary smugly faced down the wounded Mugino, who was carrying the daimyō on his back. Aware that the Konoha shinobi could not defend himself let alone escape with the lord in tow, the secretary orders Mugino to leave the daimyō and Mugino refuses. Before she could attack him, she was intercepted by Orochimaru, who quickly struck down on her with imperceivable strikes which caused her to fall into small pieces.