Title: Yanaru Aze
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Yanaru_Aze
-----------------------

was a Mercenary Ninja.

 Personality 
Although assassination strategies are usually aimed at single targets, Yanaru often chose locations that were conspicuous and visible to the public. He preferred surprise attacks in places with an unknown number of witnesses. Despite the fact that Yanaru was an experienced killer, he was prone to nervousness, and to get rid of it, he tried to breathe deeply. He was knowledgeable about famous shinobi of the Konohagakure, including Kakashi Hatake, Sasuke Uchiha, and Sakura Haruno. Yanaru, among other things, was quite unscrupulous, as he easily took a defenceless woman hostage, being ready to kill her along with the Seventh Hokage. However, he decided that it was better to die than live in captivity when he was arrested, so he committed suicide.

 Appearance 
Yanaru was described as a man with dry lips causing him to lick them, wearing gloves and straw sandals.

 Abilities 
Yanaru was a professional assassin who was able to fool the one who played the role of the Seventh Hokage by accompanying him on a business trip for three days using the Transformation Technique. He skilfully used shadow clones, combining them with his Kekkei Genkai, using them as the basis of his skills. However, Yanaru proved to be poor at taijutsu, failing to even kick Sakura, falling awkwardly to his knees. He is also weak to genjutsu, easily falling into Sasuke's illusion, while he realised that he was under the influence of genjutsu, but was unable to overcome it.

 Kekkei Genkai 
Yanaru possessed a unique Kekkei Genkai, allowing him to mentally exchange information with his shadow clones, just as clones are able to transmit information to the main body. Yanaru professionally used this skill to commit murders, placing shadow clones, assigning them code names, in ambush with weapons, while he himself turned into another person and infiltrated the inner circle of his targets, collecting all the necessary information, which the clones immediately received, building a plan based on it.

 Weapon 
Yanaru received a special weapon from Furie Kanhen, a Scientific Ninja Tool. The weapon emits a high power of 400,000 watts to attack enemies from a distance. The intense heat of the laser is instantly transferred from cell to cell, even if it only touches the ends of the hair, then the whole body will heat up on its own within a few minutes, this can cause the body to explode from the inside. In addition, Yanaru uses regular Kunai, coated with poison for effectiveness, to attack the victim at close range if necessary.

 New Era 
 Naruto Retsuden: Naruto Uzumaki and the Spiral Destiny 
At some point in time, Yanaru was approached by Furie Kanhen with an order to kill Naruto Uzumaki, who arrived in the Land of Stairs. The mercenary infiltrated the Hokage's escort and accompanied him for three days, not knowing that the transformed Shikamaru Nara was playing impersonating Naruto.

During the Hokage's communication with reporters, Yanaru placed shadow clones of himself named "Alpha", "Beta", and "Gamma" in positions, each armed with a photon weapon. The first shot missed its target, with Alpha discovering Kakashi Hatake, who destroyed him. Yanaru admitted to himself that he could not withstand such an opponent, and "Beta" was attacked by Sakura Haruno, who, after a short struggle, got rid of the clone. Noticing Sasuke in the Hokage's guard and understanding the whole situation, "Gamma" took a defenceless woman from the crowd hostage, and then aimed at the chest of Sasuke, who protected the Hokage, with his body, deciding to kill both with one shot. He decided to kill the hostage and shot her in the head. To Gamma's surprise, instead of blood, birds flew around, and he realised that he was caught in a genjutsu that he could not resist, and was then destroyed by Sasuke's forces.

The real Yanaru, meanwhile, decided to take a risk and, still under the influence of the Transformation Technique, approached the Hokage, who knew him as a member of the security group, and let him in. He took out a poisoned kunai and attacked, but Shikamaru, who quickly realised everything, fettered the killer's movements, after which he was arrested and handed over to the police of the Land of Stairs.

After some time, Yanaru committed suicide.