Title: Yodo
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Yodo
-----------------------

was a kunoichi of Sunagakure, who served as a member of a team alongside Araya and Shinki.

 Personality 
Yodo was described to be extremely confident with a keen gleam in her eyes. She also had no problem showing the extent of her true abilities. While normally a very calm and collected individual, Yodo was fiercely committed to her friends, determined to help them as best she can. Likewise, while still working well as team-mates, she had a tendency to regularly argue with Araya, even during missions.

 Appearance 

Yodo was a fair-skinned girl with blonde hair. While shoulder-length and unruly in the manga, it was straight and reached her thighs in the anime,Boruto episode 58 which is mostly covered by the hood of her jacket. She had a large bang that partially covers her forehead protector. Yodo had grey (dark blue in the anime) eyes, which were accented by red markings and she wore pink lipstick.

Her attire consisted of a dark red full-body suit with a horizontal slit below the collarbone, which was worn under a half-unzipped hooded lavender jacket that reached her waist, and wired earbuds in each ear. In the manga, she wore a bandeau under her jacket instead of a full-body suit, revealing her collarbone and upper stomach. Her manga attire also included a choker around her neck and her jacket reaches past her hips. Her hood and jacket were worn to protect her from dust clouds and the heat. She also wore black gloves and bandages around her ankles and right thigh.

Three years later, Yodo wore a pink crop top-style jacket over a black bandeau, leaving her stomach completely bare save for a whale-tail attached to her black pants with pink knee-length leg warmers-style ninja sandals, and hoop earrings. She also retained her black gloves. Yodo discarded her forehead protector, instead she wore a necklace with a Suna crest pendant.

 Abilities 
Yodo was noted to be Suna's great hope in her participation in the Chūnin Exams,Boruto: Naruto the Movie novel and was evident by the fact that she made it to the finals.

 Physical Prowess 

In the anime, she has shown to be capable in taijutsu, able to dismember multiple of Tenten's puppets.Boruto episode 56 Against Shikadai, she showed remarkable nimbleness and general efficiency in evading, able to seamlessly dodge all of Shikadai's kunai assaults with no visible effort. Her efficiency at this lets her move no more than the minimum necessity. Her greatest strength is her sensitive hearing. So delicate, she can detect a person's heartbeat and breathing-patterns to determine their emotional state. She can also anticipate the nature of how an opponent will attack by listening to their shifting posture. Yodo is shown to have high endurance, able to survive being impaled through the stomach and retain consciousness.

 Ninjutsu 
In the anime, by whipping her hair at a target, Yodo can generate a powerful sonic boom, capable of both disorienting an opponent from its high-frequency nature and physically harm them.

 New Era: Part I 
 Versus Momoshiki Arc 

While en route to Konohagakure via train, Yodo — while listening to music — looked on intently as Gaara and Kankurō spoke to her and her teammates about the upcoming examinations. Arriving at the Chūnin Exams' entrance ceremony, Yodo's team raced towards the first exam venue in the time provided in order to not get eliminated. Bypassing all traps and obstacles on their route, the team made it to Exam Venue B without using their jutsu. There, the team participated in a true or false question, which resulted in all competitors falling into a pit that contained a pool of ink. Saved by Shinki's Iron Sand, the team passed the first round of the Chūnin Exams.

Three days later, for the second round of the exams, Yodo's team competed in a game of capture the flag against Team 5. With Shinki capturing the enemies flag, the team proceeded to the next round. Yodo then faced Shikadai Nara in the third round of the Chūnin Exams. While initially having a strong command on the battle's flow thanks to her easy anticipation her opponent's movements, Shikadai soon deduced the nature of Yodo's quick reaction time, using paper bombs to offset her hearing trapping her with his Shadow Imitation Technique, defeating her.

 One-Tail Escort Arc 

In the anime, as Gaara and Sasuke Uchiha were battling Urashiki Ōtsutsuki, Yodo joined Araya and Kankurō to aid their allies. Upon arrival, Sasuke was warped to a different dimension by Urashiki, but Gaara was able to temporally seal away the foe with the timely aid and arrival of Shukaku. Afterwards, it was decided that Yodo and Araya would escort Gaara back to Suna to tend to his injuries while Kankurō went with Shinki and Boruto to safeguard Shukaku at Konoha.

Along the way, Yodo heard the approach of two people. They turned out to be Temari and Shikadai, as the former was growing concerned for her brothers. The two genin explained the situation, directing the Konoha-nin to Shinki and Boruto's last location. Soon afterwards, the winded Kazekage muttered that the seal would soon break.

Ultimately, the two genin were able to successfully return the Kazekage to the village, relieved when he recovered.

 Kara Actuation Arc 

Yodo and her team-mates were assigned a mission with Team 10 to retrieve a puppet left over from the battle against Urashiki. Upon discovering the puppet, they were encountered by Deepa. The man demanded to be given the puppet. When they refused, Deepa pelted them with a barrage of carbon cubes that even Shinki's Iron Sand Wall couldn't completely resist, knocking Yodo and Araya out. Their allies were soon defeated as well. Despite the defeat and them destroying Deepa's target, Deepa decided to leave them alive. After awakening, they reported the assault.

 Chūnin Re-Examination Arc 

Having become a chūnin, Yodo and her team were instructed by Gaara to go watch the Chūnin Exams in Konoha, arriving during the second match of the finals. While talking to Sarada and Chōchō, she commented they had been chūnin for a while, and that the Konoha genin were taking time getting promoted. Before the third match, between Sarada and Chōchō, Yodo noticed Shinki leaving the arena, though he assured he would return soon.

By the end of the exams, the Suna-nin returned home, having completed their true objective of investigating Kawaki. Yodo noted her dismay at not seeing Boruto's match, as he was disqualified for not arriving on time.

 New Era: Part II 
 Boruto's Return Arc 

Three years later, Suna was invaded by the sentient God Tree, Matsuri. Yodo joined her team and the Fifth Kazekage to face the threat, but was quickly repelled. As Gaara was severely injured, he made the decision to restrain Yodo's team with his sand so as to keep them safe from battle. When the Claw Grimes attacked Gaara, Shinki managed to escape and sealed his father to protect him, but as a result, Shinki was consumed by a Claw Grime. Yodo attempted to save Shinki but was held back by Araya. Shinki told his team-mates not to worry about him and warn Kankurō of what happened before he was transformed into a tree.

 Matsuri and Ryū Arc 

Later, at the request of the Eighth Hokage, Yodo and Araya joined Team 7 to intercept the sudden appearance of two Human God Trees in the Land of Wind. Upon meeting the team, Yodo noticed how flustered Sarada was, asking if she had a crush on someone, which she denied. Following Shikamaru's plan to feign befriending the God Trees, having learned that Matsuri had feelings for Konohamaru, the team approached the God Trees. They pretended not to know who and what they were, telling the two that they were also hunting down Boruto. It was agreed to join with the God Trees to find Boruto. Soon, Konohamaru convinced the God Trees to separate under the pretense of better searching the area, Yodo and the other kids pairing up with Ryū.

As the shinobi claimed they have leads on Boruto's whereabouts, Ryū followed them. They met up with Yodo and Araya, introducing themselves to the God Tree. Despite her best efforts, Yodo struggled to hide her hatred towards Ryū. Mitsuki asked Ryū why the God Trees wanted Boruto dead so badly. Ryū admitted that Jura finds it too troublesome that Boruto knew about the Thornsoul Bulbs. As Sarada suggests that they use a Thornsoul Bulb to lure out Boruto, Ryū agreed and produced his own. Unable to restrain herself in the hopes of freeing Shinki, Yodo rushed to steal the bulb, only for it to be a fake made of Iron Sand. Having seen through the shinobi's deception, Ryū decided they must be punished. He used his Iron Sand, which he secretly coated them with, to manipulate their bodies into attacking each other. To Ryū's surprise, Araya freed everyone with his Magnetic Iron Sand Sealing Blade, having developed it with Shinki previously.

With Araya's technique to protect them from Ryū's Iron Sand, the team goes on the offense. As they seemingly pin the God Tree down, he reveals his ability to transform himself into Iron Sand to escape. Yodo keeps the team a step ahead of Ryū's sand attacks with her acute hearing. The God Tree then summons several Claw Grimes to aid him, overwhelming the shinobi with their relentless attacks. As a Claw Grime is prime to devour Yodo, Araya slashes the creature, only for it to quickly secures the blade in its wound. Ryū then teleports the Claw Grime away, with Araya's sword and leaving him defenseless.

As Ryū quickly overpowered his foes and captured them, he offered to spare them if they revealed any useful information on Boruto or his accomplice. Yodo told Sarada to reveal what she knew, but the Konoha-nin refused to sell Boruto out. Yodo realised that Sarada cared deeply for Boruto, similar to her own loyalty to Shinki. Yodo instead offered to give Ryū her services in finding Boruto with her sensory powers. Ultimately, Ryū declined the offer and struck her down. As Yodo was still clinging to life, Ryū used his sand to force Sarada to finish the job with a kunai. Yodo revealed she also knew Sarada was hiding a power that can help, telling her it's okay to use something dangerous when it is to protect what you care for. Accepting Yodo's words, Sarada revealed her Mangekyō Sharingan, opening a rift to suck up all the iron sand, freeing everyone.

Ultimately, Sarada's new powers were able to overwhelm and defeat Ryū, but as foreseen by Koji Kashin, Yodo succumbed to the injuries she had received from Ryū and had passed away.<ref>Boruto: Two Blue Vortex chapter 21, page 35</ref> With his mission complete, Araya took both Yodo and Ryū's Thornsoul Bulb back to Sunagakure.

 Trivia 
 Kishimoto has stated he wanted to draw a punk-like girl when he designed Yodo.Zai no Sho, page 35
 According to character trivia from Boruto'':
 Yodo's hobby was appreciating music and audio.
 Her favourite food was macaroons, and her least favourite food was raw fish.