Title: Yokaze
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Yokaze
-----------------------

is a medical-nin from Konohagakure.

 Personality 
Yokaze always wanted to become a member of the Anbu of his village and therefore admires those who hail from the unit. He is very sacrificial, protecting Yūgao from a serious attack under the cost of his own good health.

 Appearance 
Yokaze has long, wavy brown hair tied in a low ponytail, and black eyes. He wears the Allied Shinobi Forces' forehead protector, and a medical gown over his flak jacket. During the pursuit to retrieve the KIA scroll, he wears a standard Konoha uniform and lets his hair down.

 Abilities 
As a medical-nin, Yokaze is naturally adept at chakra control which goes into the use of intricate medical ninjutsu. In battle, he carried a sword, and while he is not shown using it in battle, it can be assumed that he was at least adept in the use of kenjutsu. He is able to fight opponents, who wiped out entire platoons of at least chūnin-level shinobi single-handedly, on even terms. He seems to be skilled in taijutsu as he was fast enough to jump into Hayate Gekkō's slash towards Yūgao and could immediately counter by delivering a kick that sent Hayate flying quite a distance.

 Part II 
 Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation 

During the Fourth Shinobi World War, Yokaze was assigned to the Logistical Support and Medical Division. There, with the body count and casualty numbers rising, he marvelled as Yūgao Uzuki completed her duties with great efficiency, wondering why someone from the Anbu had been assigned to their division. Yokaze was later assigned to a team by Sukui, alongside Sakura Haruno and Iō to retrieve the KIA scroll that was stolen by Hayate Gekkō, and two other unnamed reincarnated shinobi from Sunagakure and Kumogakure. During the battle, Yokaze threw his sword to Yūgao for her to use, but she was still unable to get over the shock of having to fight her former lover and was not able to take up the sword. Yokaze later sustained an injury during the altercation, but was then attended to by Yūgao. He then confronted Yūgao and stated that Hayate wanted her to stop him. He gave his sword to Yūgao and told her that he would be fine and the reinforcements would arrive soon. Ultimately, the mission turned out as a success as they were able to not only retrieve the scroll, but seal away their comrade and the other two reincarnated shinobi.

 Trivia 
  means "night wind".