Title: Yoroi Akadō
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Yoroi_Akadō
-----------------------

is an Otogakure shinobi who alongside his teammate Misumi Tsurugi, migrated to Konohagakure and disguised themselves as Konoha shinobi as a part of Team Kabuto.Naruto: One Decade, One Hundred Ninja, page 72

 Background 
Though it appeared he was a Konoha-nin, his  was that of a  from Otogakure, officially migrating to the village with his teammate, Misumi Tsurugi; he disguised himself as a Konoha-nin to infiltrate the Chūnin Exams when he was placed on Team Kabuto with his allies. Within Otogakure, he was Kabuto Yakushi's superior and swore absolute loyalty to Orochimaru.

 Personality 
Yoroi was a brash and strong-willed ninja who usually felt confident about fighting his opponents and would toy with his opponent frequently. He possessed a very arrogant side and loved to boast about his own abilities. Often times however his toying with opponents led to him losing his struggles rather than emerging with victory. He had a less than pleasant relationship with Kabuto Yakushi, resenting Orochimaru's favortism of him and criticizing his decision to forfeit in the Chunin Exams. Naruto chapter 66, page 6 He was also described as being greatly self-confident and unsociable.

 Appearance 

Yoroi's appearance was greatly concealed by the mask he wore around his mouth that hung around his neck, sunglasses that obscured his eyes and a forehead protector which he wore like a bandanna. He also wore what appears to be the standard attire of his team consisting of a high-collared, sleeveless, purple shirt with a short-sleeved, white one underneath, a simple obi around his waist, purple pants, blue sandals and purple fingerless gloves. After defecting from Konohagakure, he wore a simple shirt with the sleeves rolled up, pants and sandals. It was also revealed that he had black shoulder-length hair.

 Abilities 

Yoroi's most notable ability was his capacity to absorb the physical and spiritual energy of an opponent by simply coming into physical contact with them. Yoroi was quite proficient with this technique, as he was able to drain Sasuke's chakra even by just slightly grazing his hair. This extra chakra could also be utilised by himself to perform chakra-taxing techniques.

In the anime, Yoroi demonstrates a greater assortment of techniques such as the Demonic Illusion: Descending Hell Technique, which creates an illusionary ball of fire in the sky to frighten his opponents. He also shows proficiency in water-based techniques, using both the Water Clone Technique and the Water Release: Great Waterfall Flow Technique against Shino. He also demonstrates a technique in which he strikes the ground with his fist and creates a shockwave that paralyses Shino (who was actually an insect clone).Naruto episode 171

 Part I 
 Chūnin Exams 

Yoroi, who at the time was in Kabuto's Genin Team, participated in the Chūnin Exams with a task given to him and his fellow teammates by Orochimaru. During the second round where all the students should enter the Forest of Death, Yoroi and Misumi managed to pass by reaching the exam hall and reunite with Kabuto.  Later they met with Orochimaru and told him the information they have got and were told to do as he says. During the preliminaries he is matched against Sasuke Uchiha. Yoroi utilised a very unique technique that allowed him to absorb the chakra of his opponents, making it very difficult for Sasuke to battle, let alone keep his cursed seal under control. Despite this, Sasuke defeated Yoroi with his newly devised taijutsu, the Lion Combo. Yoroi was last seen being taken to the medical infirmary for treatment.

 Kaima Capture Mission 

Though Yoroi and Misumi are not reintroduced in the manga, they make a second appearance in the anime as research assistants and bodyguards to Orochimaru's former scientist, Amachi. He, like Misumi, has taken off the cloth covering his lower face and has completely changed his wardrobe. Yoroi, too, has displayed a variety of anime-exclusive techniques and different ways of manoeuvring his Chakra Absorption Technique. During the events of this arc, he fights Shino Aburame twice; in the first battle, he is forced to retreat due to the fact that the cave the two were fighting in was collapsing. During the second battle, he is ultimately defeated and sinks beneath the water after a final attack by Shino's bugs. Currently, his status is unknown. 

 In Other Media 
 Video Games 

 Trivia 
 "Akadō" literally means "red body", whereas  literally means "armour". Yoroi's name may be based on the Sengoku period practice of wearing bright-red armour to instil fear upon the enemy. This tactic, called , was most famously used by Ii Naomasa, one of the Tokugawa Shitennō, the four most trusted generals of Tokugawa Ieyasu, the first shōgun of the Tokugawa Shogunate. This tactic proved so succesful for Naomasa and his forces, that he soon earned the nickname .
 "Yoroi" is the name for a samurai's armour. With his former teammates, Kabuto ("helmet") and Tsurugi ("sword"), they form an armour—helmet—sword trio.
 According to the databook(s):
 His favourite food is unagi.
 Given he only joined Konoha under false pretenses and was still technically an Oto-nin, it is unclear if he is truly a missing-nin in the manga.