Title: Yubina
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Yubina
-----------------------

is a former kunoichi now operating as a doctor in a small facility in the outskirts of the Land of Valleys.

 Background 
Yubina was once a medical-nin. Due to her sadistic nature making her methods excessive, she ultimately resigned from ninja work.

 Personality 
Yubina is a very eccentric woman, almost constantly having a sadistic smile on her face. While committed to saving lives, in a paradoxical nature, she relishes in watching people endure pain. She tends to make her treatment as painful as possible, just to watch her subject squirm and hear them scream, convinced that that pain will breathe more life into them. At the same time, after the patient makes a full recovery, she is shown to have a more gentle side. Somewhat materialistic, she will also charge extra for her services without a prior appointment. She is also shown to be very knowledgeable, having known much about the workings of Wood Release and the shady dealings around the world.

 Appearance 
Yubina is a dark-skinned woman of curvaceous frame. She has straight brown hair that reaches her jaw and frames her face with a single bang hanging between her purple eyes. She wears a white shirt under a short-sleeved pink shirt with pink shorts, black leggings, and white ankle-length boots.

 Abilities 
 Ninjutsu 
As a former medical-nin acknowledged by even the likes of Sakura Uchiha, Yubina is very skilled. With her Mystical Palm Technique, she can instantly heal minor injuries. With limited equipment, she can stabilise people of grievous injuries. For extreme afflictions on a target, with additional chakra, she can save most cases. She has also shown skill in fūinjutsu, able to apply a seal that will slow down a person's declining condition. She is also a skilled researcher, able to produce antidotes for new afflictions.

 New Era 
 Kara Actuation Arc 

While treating another patient, who ultimately ran away from her hellish methods, Mugino and Team 7 came to her, seeking help for their ill team-mate Mitsuki. Despite scaring the genin with her obvious love of inflicting pain, Mugino vouched for her skill. With Sarada's help, she was able to isolate the source of Mitsuki's condition and extract it to save him. After sleeping for a period, she explained to her guests that Mitsuki was infected by some of the First Hokage's cellular structure. Yubina also revealed that another case like this showed up in a little girl, and rumors that the black market was harvesting the late Hokage's cells for sale. It was decided the team would go the source in the Land of Silence. However, Mitsuki would stay behind to recover and help Yubina in designing a cure to the outbreak as his immune system showed such properties.

Ultimately, Yubina succeeded in saving the infected girl with Mitsuki's antibodies. She also deduced that the Hashirama Cell is very unstable, meaning it will have to be transported very carefully. Later, complaining about how slow business was lately, she was startled by a sudden crash outside her building. She found the Team 7 genin grievously injured. She went to work treating them. She contacted Konohamaru and Mugino. Because her place wasn't equipped enough to handle such severe injuries, they were transported by the older Konoha-nin for help.

pt-br:Yubina