Title: Yuina Itomaki
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Yuina_Itomaki
-----------------------

is an Academy student of Konohagakure.

 Personality 
Yuina is a quiet and shy young girl. She's also very polite, always addressing people with proper honourifics. While not very out-spoken, she is firm in her decision of wanting to become a shinobi. In the presence of more out-spoken peers, she will follow them if they take an initiative, even when Yuina herself disagrees with their methods and viewpoints. Yuina is dedicated to becoming a shinobi, so she took up studying several subjects, despite not yet being an Academy student.

 Appearance 
Yuina has indigo hair with short bangs in the front and long and curled bangs dangling freely on each side. Her hair is tied in round ponytails on each side and she has royal blue eyes. She wears a white kimono that is tied with a grey obi and a crimson cord, and wears blue shorts and blue shinobi sandals. 

 Abilities 
Yuina is shown to be a very knowledgeable young girl.

 New Era 
Yuina took part of a one-day trial at the Academy. She was enthusiastic upon learning the Hokage's daughter would also participate. She struggled a bit during the physical tasks. During a mission to find a lost cat in the park, Yuina found its trail, allowing the group to track it. When the group escaped from a hornet hive, Yuina followed Ehō after he decided to abandon Himawari over her hesitation and doubt on whether she wanted to become a shinobi. 

The two manage to find the cat, but fall through a well. Himawari found them, and convincing Ehō not to use his flare for help, the three cooperated and managed to climb out by themselves. Following their trial classes together, the three continued being friends and practising their shinobi skills together. 

 Chūnin Re-Examation Arc 

On the day of the final round for the Chūnin Exams, while practising with Ehō and Himawari, Ehō noticed a group of suspicious men in an alley. Yuina and Ehō followed them to the train station, while Himawari brought Boruto and Mitsuki to help. The children witnessed the men kidnap Amado and the genin gave chase.

 Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc 

Upon finally entering the Academy, Yuina was happy to be in the same class as Himawari and Ehō. She was also surprised to see the much older Kawaki entering the Academy and amazed to learn about Kae Yukiwari, the foreign exchange student from the Land of Bamboo, being a princess.

Yuina was part of a group of students who decided to explore the Academy at night to investigate its Seven Mysteries. She was one of the few students who kept investigating until the very end, when she fainted. Her testimony of confusing Shino covered in glowing paint with a ghost in the faculty room cemented the story as the seventh mystery. During a practical lesson, she was placed in a team alongside Doseki and Ran.

Later, Yuina helped setup a school play about the Sannin. The day of the festival, she helped make sure her classmates looked good in their costumes. When the festival received a terrorist threat, Yuina stayed inside.

Later, following Hana being hospitalised from the terrorist attack, Yuina joined her class in welcoming back their teacher. To make up for the festival being cancelled, Hana arranged for the class to undergo survival training on an uninhabited island. However, Kikuchiyo was injured and their food supplies vanished, stoking fear about a rumour of killer missing-nin settling on the island. Everyone formed groups to scavenge food, and later to look for Neon's damaged drone. By night, everyone enjoyed their food.

Attracted by an explosion, the class encountered Kawaki and Himawari, who revealed that Hana, actually an assassin, had killed Kae. Himawari pointed out that her actions made more sense if Hana wanted to keep Kae as a hostage. Working together, the students tracked Kae and Hana to a cave. Finding the situation too dangerous for the students, Kawaki revealed himself as a shinobi, and credited them for helping find Kae. Eiki still believed there was something they could do, leading them to the docks, hoping to get word of the situation out. They came across Sai, who came to the island with Team 25 after discovering Hana's Land of Bamboo background. Upon finding Hana defeated, her teacher personality struggled against the assassin one, eventually prevailing with the encouragement of her students and regaining control. As Kae had to return home, the class finally put on the Sannin play, and later saw her off at the train station.

 Trivia 
 Yuina Itomaki is a fanmade original character that won the Boruto: Naruto Next Generations Chapter #18 Borukura original character contest, created by Misato Yamashita of Kanagawa Prefecture. She appeared alongside another winner, Ehō Norimaki.