Title: Yurinojō
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Yurinojō
-----------------------

is a ninja from the Land of Vegetables. 

 Background 
He is skilled in the use of his clan's secret flower-oriented techniques. He grew up and trained alongside his friend Kikunojō, with whom he shared a friendly rivalry. When still kids, he and Kikunojō developed a huge crush on Tsunade and fought for her affection (at least according to Tsunade).

 Personality 
Yurinojō is a more insecure person than Kikunojō, but at the same time he is not afraid to contradict Haruna, with equal respect to his comrade. Respect for the princess is especially evident in the moment when Yurinojō protects Haruna from being hit by Naruto with himself, receiving a blow in the face, and apologised to him for the princess's behaviour. He has great respect for Kikunojō and honours him as the stronger one, regretting that he will not be able to surpass him due to the latter's death.

 Appearance 
He is a medium height man with black eyes, thick eyebrows, and short dark grey hair. He wears a light-coloured jacket with a turquoise vest over it, darker pants, sandals, and a sword on his back. While disguised as a merchant, he wore a grey suit with orange trim, a light-coloured beanie, and a shoulder bag.

 Abilities 
Yurinojō specialises in Flower Ninja Art; a subset of ninjutsu and genjutsu involving flowers. He can turn flowers into shuriken or have the flowers ignite into flames to surround and kill the opponent.

 Part I 
 Peddlers Escort Mission 

When the infamous Janin attacked the Land of Vegetables, the daimyō sent Kikunojō and Yurinojō to protect his daughter, Haruna. Fearing that their combined skills would not be enough, Kikunojō hired Konoha for assistance. Unfortunately, due to little money, they could only be offered assistance at a C-rank level mission under the guise of escorting merchants. To further this deception, Kikunojō, Haruna, and Yurinojō disguised themselves as merchants as well. When it later became clear that the Criminal Brothers saw through their deceptions, Kikunojō went off to face them head-on. 

After learning of Kikunojō's demise, Yurinojō assisted Naruto and Chōji in defeating Ruiga, one of the Criminal Brothers. He figured out that Ruiga was using his tonfa as dowsing rods to find water sources for his techniques to work. He helped trick Ruiga into following them to a rocky area where water was scarce, preventing him from using his water-based techniques.