Title: Yurito
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Yurito
-----------------------

is a shinobi of Konohagakure.

 Personality 
Yurito is a kind and dutiful individual. He looks up to Shikamaru Nara.

 Appearance 
Yurito has short blond hair and blue eyes. He also wears a standard Konoha uniform. After Yurito was injured by Sekiei, he began wearing a large black cloth over the right side of his face, covering his damaged eye and ear.

 Abilities 
He showed noticeable speed and likewise was proficient in close-range combat, being able to fend off a double-team assault from Metal Lee and Iwabee Yuino, both of which are highly proficient taijutsu fighters.

 Blank Period 
 Shikamaru Hiden: A Cloud Drifting in Silent Darkness 

Yurito worked in the archive room of the Hokage Mansion and would occasionally talk with Shikamaru Nara. After Shikamaru completed the mission of capturing Gengo in the Land of Silence, Yurito was sent to question the others and fill out paperwork concerning the mission.

 New Era 
Upon Shikamaru returning to the office after dealing with Boruto Uzumaki and Sarada Uchiha, Yurito asked how it went with dealing with the two who were searching for the Seventh Hokage.

 Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc 

When unknown assailants attacked Konohagakure, one of them placed Yurito under genjutsu to continue spying for them. Later, Yurito was guarding the room where Sakura Uchiha checked Uō's condition until she sent him to deliver a report to the Seventh Hokage. After delivering it, he returned to Uō's room and secretly stole a medical syringe. Later, as one of the attacked guards was expected to awake, Yurito attempted to kill the man with poison, only for it to be Moegi Kazamatsuri in disguise. Having been found out, Yurito retreated. He bumped into Team 5. While feigning a cover story, Udon Ise saw through it. Yurito took Denki Kaminarimon as a hostage, only for the genin to escape with a flash bomb. As the team's genin attempted to subdue Yurito, Udon realised that he was under genjutsu. He proceeded to free him. As the man began coming to his senses, a C1 Explosive Clay emerged from his flak jacket, detonating and leaving Yurito severely injured. He was then taken back to the medical bay for treatment.Boruto Episode 77

 One-Tail Escort Arc 

After a long recovery since the incident, Yurito returned with some apparent permanent injuries to help Shikamaru. When receiving a message from Sasuke via his hawk, he delivered it to Shikamaru.

 Code Invasion Arc 

When strange claw markings were discovered outside the village, Shikamaru and Sai requested Yurito to bring Kawaki to identify them, with the latter confirming they are from the surviving Inner of Kara, Code.