Title: Yurui
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Yurui
-----------------------

is a shinobi of Kumogakure.

 Personality 
Yurui has an arrogant personality as he looks down on Konohagakure shinobi and boasts the superiority of Kumo. He openly taunts those who he believes are inferior to him. He jumps to conclusions, calling Boruto weak, even though he had not seen him fight and being the Hokage's son. He also appears to be rather controlling, trying to remove Boruto and Sarada from their booth even though they were already sitting there. He admires Killer B.

 Appearance 

Yurui has fair skin, blond hair and grey eyes. Just like Killer B, he also has a tattoo of a bull's horn on his left cheek (which corresponds to Gyūki not having a left horn). His outfit consists of a standard Kumogakure flak jacket, complete with a white Kumo forehead protector and baggy white pants. Additionally, he has bandages around his arms, extending to the back of his hands. He also carries a pendant that has the head of Gyūki and two swords on his back.

 Abilities 

Yurui is described as an elite shinobi and a strategist who gives off a slovenly impression to throw his enemies off guard. Using the bubblegum he's constantly chewing, he can shoot projectiles to entrap an opponent or create giant bubbles that are capable of trapping an enemy inside or causing explosions. Due to carrying two swords on his back, it can be assumed that he is skilled in kenjutsu.

 New Era 
 Versus Momoshiki Arc 

Yurui enters the Chūnin Exams with his teammates. In the first round, when the quiz question was revealed to be trick, Yurui used his bubbles to save himself and his team from falling in the ink pit, thus avoid elimination. In the second round, Yurui was faced against Team 15. He attacked Wasabi Izuno and Sumire Kakei, which allowed his teammate Toroi to retrieve their flag. In the third round, Yurui is matched against Boruto Uzumaki. He manages to gain the upper hand by creating multiple exploding bubbles with his bubblegum. However, he was defeated when Boruto (with the aid of his Shinobi Gauntlet) used a shuriken to burst a bubble right in Yurui's face, causing it to explode and knock him unconscious.

 In Other Media 
 Video Games 

In the Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 4 "Road to Boruto" DLC, Yurui appears as an opponent.

 Trivia 
  literally means "lenient".
 Kishimoto has stated he was based on Kumo's "B line" of shinobi; as Yurui looks up to Killer B.Zai no Sho, page 52