Title: Yūga
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Yūga
-----------------------

was a shinobi from the Land of Haze.

 Background 
Yūga and his brothers were orphans who found a home in the Land of Haze's orphanage. Despite it being a smaller and impoverished country, they enjoyed having decent meals. They would also often spend their time playing under a large peach tree.

 Personality 
Like his brothers, Yūga was an extremely committed man. He would willingly sacrifice himself for his brothers and his mission. This came from the hardships of his childhood. Appreciating what it is like to suffer in life, he treasured any small peace of joy he can have. 

 Abilities 

Yūga was able to use a self-sacrificing technique, the Haze Ninja Art: Forbidden Technique: Ephemeral Life. It was a last-ditch technique where a spectre is summoned and allowed to use the user's life force to hold physical form. Upon entering physical form, the creature erects a large, powerful barrier around its targets. It has blitzing speed, power, great resilience and can absorb the chakra from living creatures to gain more power and even recover lost limbs.

Yūga was also quite capable with the Transformation Technique, using it to fool others. He also carried a tantō, hinting at skill in kenjutsu.

 New Era 
 Kara Actuation Arc 

Yūga and his brothers were given a mission to retrieve the cells of the First Hokage Hashirama Senju, which made its way into the black market in the Land of Silence. Using their female disguises, Yūga and his brothers attempted to seduce Kirisaki to learn of the location of the cell. However, he lost interest when Boruto Uzumaki arrived himself taking the appearance of a woman.

Witnessing Boruto and his comrades taking away an unconscious Kirisaki, Yūga and his brothers tracked them to learn that Sakuya had the cell in her possession. Yūga, Asaka and Hiruga successfully sneaked into the castle, thanks to Yoruga's sacrifice to bypass the barrier ninjutsu surrounding the castle. Yūga and Asaka managed to locate and kill Sakuya and claim the cell. Boruto arrived and using the opportunity for a getaway, they framed him for the deaths of Sakuya and her butler, but not before the latter alerted the castle guards of her death and alleged culprits. Having successfully escaped the village, Yūga and his remaining brothers mourned Yoruga.

While making their way back to their country, Asaka learned they were being followed, and in order for their mission to be a success, Yūga stayed behind to stall their pursuers. Yūga passed on his earring to Asaka before they part ways. Yūga confronted the Konohagakure shinobi, who had successfully escaped from the Land of Silence, hoping to stall them for his brothers. As Yoruga before him, Yūga sacrificed his life to ensure the success of the mission.

 Legacy 
Like Yoruga before him, Yūga left his brothers with greater drive to complete the mission and relinquished his earring for it to be hung under the peach tree of their old orphanage.

pt-br:Yūga