Title: Zabuza Momochi
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Zabuza_Momochi
-----------------------

, given the moniker , was a missing-nin from Kirigakure's Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist.

 Background 
left|
Before the term of the Fourth Mizukage, Yagura Karatachi, Kirigakure began the practice of pitting Kirigakure Academy graduates against each other in death matches as a final exam with the exceptionally skilled students named prime candidates for the Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist. After Zabuza, not yet a student himself, killed over one hundred Academy students,Naruto chapter 14 pages 5-7 the practice was discontinued and he would thereafter be known as the "Demon of the Hidden Mist". His fame grew over the years as he became an Anbu, killing the Konohagakure ninja Kumade Toriichi at that time, before finally joining the Seven Swordsmen.

During the Fourth Mizukage's reign over the Bloody Mist, Zabuza came to disagree with the workings of the village. He gathered a group of followers and attempted a coup d'etat against the Mizukage, only to be betrayed by one of their own;Shikamaru Hiden resulting in a failed attempt on Yagura's life.Kai no Sho, page 119Naruto chapter 30, page 15 Zabuza subsequently fled the village with Haku and some other followers, such as the Demon Brothers, becoming mercenaries in order to gather funds for a second attempt in the future, which is why he worked with Gatō. With his departure he took the Kubikiribōchō with him, causing Kirigakure to lose one of its famed swords. As Zabuza was accepting work from corrupt people, however, many of his followers became disillusioned about such goals and left; one of whom was Gengo.

At some point after, he discovered Haku, a child with a special kekkei genkai and began training him to be the ultimate weapon, planning to use him for his comeback.Naruto: One Decade, One Hundred Ninja, page 23 In the anime, he and Haku witnessed the Kaguya clan attacking Kirigakure yet chose not to help his village. Soon after, they encountered Kimimaro, the soon-to-be-sole survivor of the Kaguya. Although Haku wanted to talk to the boy, Zabuza forced him to leave Kimimaro alone and keep moving.Naruto episode 126

 Personality 
According to his former follower Gengo, Zabuza was once seen as charismatic and inspiring as he had previously dreamed of a society with shinobi as the ruling class; a dream which motivated his attempted coup against the Fourth Mizukage whom he disagreed with. However he would become bitter and cynical after the coup ended in failure, and over time made him a ruthless hitman willing to be hired out by anyone corrupt.

Zabuza was initially portrayed as aggressive, arrogant, cruel, cold and ambitious, willing to become Gatō's thug to gain enough funds to start a second coup d'etat on the Mizukage and have the nation under his feet, and kill anyone who stood in his path, including plotting to kill Gatō once he had received enough funds from him. His reputation for cruelty and ruthlessness began as a child where he killed every single candidate in Kirigakure's Academy, earning him the moniker of . He willingly uses his own men and others as pawns to fulfil his ambitions, as he raised Haku to be an efficient tool to be discarded when he had no use to exploit; although unlike future antagonists, he was blunt about the purpose that his recruits were needed for, forgoing any form of manipulation by pretending to be benevolent to inspire loyalty. This corresponds with his cynical view of the world, which only consists of the used and the users, as well as viewing shinobi to be nothing more than tools. Despite this outward attitude, Zabuza grew to care deeply for Haku and viewed him to be far more than a tool.

He is an observant adversary who is able to analyse his opponent's techniques after seeing it once, but becomes overconfident if he sees the technique as useless. Despite his ruthlessness, Zabuza possessed a softer side that he himself was largely unaware of. After Haku's death, while Zabuza initially only laughs at his usefulness, Kakashi notes Zabuza is no longer able to fight to his true potential as he is secretly distraught at Haku's loss. In his last moments, Zabuza realised how deeply he truly cared for Haku, and after being convinced by Naruto Uzumaki, he sacrifices his life to kill Gatō, and dies wishing he could join Haku in the afterlife. However, he seems reluctant to speak or hear about it, telling whoever does so to shut up. Kakashi has also noted that Zabuza had hesitated for a moment before the thought of slashing through Haku to get to Kakashi during their battle on the bridge; the lack of hesitation during the Fourth Shinobi War made Kakashi know that the controlled Zabuza was completely different. 

He has also shown a sense of honour, as seen after his reincarnation when he expressed disgust about the idea of working for anyone who would stoop down so low as to use the dead as their tools, in the meantime making the revived immortal. His sense of honour is extended even further when he pleads with Kakashi to stop him and Haku from causing damage, wishing his death as a human being to be preserved. He hated following the orders of others.

 Appearance 

Zabuza was a tall and noticeably muscular man with light grayish skin, short spiky black hair, dark brown eyes, and small eyebrows. He was normally seen wearing bandages like a mask over the bottom half of his face. Under his mask, he had a relatively narrow jawline and jagged-teeth, a trait he shared with his fellow Swordsmen. He wore his forehead protector sideways on his head, and prior to his defection from Kirigakure, donned the village's Anbu uniform and flak jacket. After his defection, and during his first appearance, he was seen shirtless, with his chest only covered by a belt to which he attached his Kubikiribōchō, wearing baggy pants with the striped pattern typical of Kirigakure and mimetic wrist-warmers extending up to his elbows, with matching leg-warmers.

During his second appearance, he wore a sleeveless black shirt and matching pants, complete with a waist-guard, and yet again, Kirigakure's striped wrist and leg-warmers. Other swordsmen of his generation wore attire identical to this, implying that they might be clothes related to the group. While donning this attire, much like his fellow Swordsmen, he had bandages loosely tied around his neck like a scarf.

As a child, Zabuza's attire consisted of a  sleeveless shirt with light shoulder-straps and a circular mark on the back, sporting the kanji for . He also wore dark pants with two straps covering the bottom and a hip pouch, along with black shinobi-sandals and dark fingerless gloves.Naruto chapter 14, page 7

 Abilities 

Zabuza was one of Kirigakure's most powerful shinobi ever produced. Vicious in battle, his talent for combat was seen even as a child, who had yet to begin in the Academy, as he killed over one hundred trained students single-handedly. Even amongst Kirigakure's strongest, the Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist, Zabuza was considered part of the so-called "strongest" generation.Naruto chapter 523, pages 1-2 As an adult, he could compete against one of Konohagakure's strongest shinobi, Kakashi Hatake for an extended period of time, who, expecting a jōnin-level opponent,Naruto chapter 11, page 12, panel 6 realised he had underestimated the Kiri-nin early in their encounter, not knowing his true level.Naruto chapter 13, page 8, panel 3 In particular, he had excellent parameters in strength,Naruto chapter 13, page 6, panel 8 speed, stamina, and ninjutsu. Even when he was gravely injured and had both arms crippled, Zabuza remained a dangerous adversary, being able to strike down dozens of Gatō's specially hired men and even Gatō himself. 

 Physical and Chakra Prowess 
left|
Zabuza was very physically strong, able to effortlessly wield the large Kubikiribōchō for long periods of time unfazed, even with one hand. He was also blazingly fast and equally proficient in taijutsu, able to match Kakashi in both and with the latter able to fight off and kill dozens of Gatō's men with the loss of both his arms, using well-coordinated kicks and a kunai in his mouth. During which, he showed remarkable levels of stamina and endurance, able to continue fighting effectively despite the injuries he received from Kakashi and the large number of blades that pierced him. Zabuza could also take a direct hit from a powerful water technique seemingly without major damage and still move relatively normal shortly afterwards.Naruto chapter 15, page 15 True to his moniker, Zabuza possessed an incredibly potent aura, which could be visibly seen when released, taking the image of a demon. Even while barely standing, a single glare from Zabuza left the remainder of Gatō's thugs stiff with fear. 

Zabuza was also a master of stealth and assassination. He was most renowned throughout all countries for his high skill in killing opponents through zero visibility. Kakashi noted that his Silent Killing prowess was second to none. This technique puts the victim under tremendous pressure before Zabuza even attacks, as it is noted that even the slightest movement of the eye was enough to alert Zabuza of his victim's location. Also, Zabuza has very advanced chakra control, able to perform a second technique while maintaining another.Naruto chapter 13, page 8

 Ninjutsu 
 Kenjutsu 

During his time as a Kiri-nin, Zabuza was one of the Seven Swordsmen of the Mist, a group composed of the village's top swordsmen. The generation of swordsmen he belonged to was noted as the strongest ever produced within Kirigakure, a further testament to Zabuza's impressive skills. Zabuza's signature weapon was the Kubikiribōchō, an over-sized broad sword, whose shape was thought to decapitate enemies. This large weapon has the unique ability to absorb and utilise the iron from all the blood it sheds, from whoever it cuts, keeping it strong and sharp on its own, even reform itself if damaged or broken. Zabuza was a master in its use, being capable of dispatching numerous enemies with a few slashes, and claiming that his sword "never cut a second time", implying to have killed a large number of people with a single attack.

The weapon's weight didn't seem to slow Zabuza down at all, as he could employ it in combat for extended periods of time with no visible strain on himself, something Suigetsu Hōzuki hasn't achieved. Apart from handling it very skilfully, Zabuza could also throw it to great distances, even spinning at several enemies with enough power to lodge itself into a hard tree trunk.Naruto chapter 11, page 17 

He also wielded a kunai with a sharp protrusion on one side (which in the anime is Kirigakure's variation of the standard kunai), designed for thrusting and stabbing instead of slicing, which fit his stealthy attributes perfectly. Zabuza could also use fūma shuriken in a similar fashion; using them in melee combat by spinning the weapon within his hand to attack his opponent.Naruto chapter 15, page 5

 Nature Transformation 
left|
Zabuza had great skill in Water Release techniques. He could perform several of them while keeping a separate one active, as seen when he kept Kakashi trapped in the Water Prison Technique while at the same time attacking the rest of Team 7 with a water clone. He could maintain several of these clones at the same time, often using them as diversions. He also showed proficiency in large-scale, highly destructive water-attacks from launching powerful torrents of water in the forms of dragon bullets and giant waterfalls at his opponents.

Zabuza was especially adept at the Hiding in Mist Technique, as it made his Silent Killing even easier to perform. By blanketing the area in a thick mist, Zabuza could blind his targets, making it even more difficult for them to defend against him. In this manner, Zabuza was capable of carrying out stealthy attacks even in completely open spaces, able to suddenly disappear from an enemy's sight and then strike unseen. His skill with this technique was such that he could create an impenetrable mist without the need of an immediate source of water nearby. Even Kabuto Yakushi kept Zabuza's use of the technique in high regard, as seen when he was willing to sacrifice other reincarnated shinobi to protect Zabuza and keep the Hiding in Mist Technique going.

 Intelligence 
While he preferred using direct attacks, Zabuza was also highly capable at misdirections. From his Anbu days, Zabuza possessed extensive knowledge of the human body's pressure points and most vulnerable organs. Zabuza was also knowledgeable in foreign techniques and kekkei genkai, having knowledge of the Sharingan and instantly recognising the Shadow Clone Technique. Zabuza was also a skilled teacher, as it was under his tutelage that Haku managed to become such a powerful shinobi despite his young age.

 Stats 

 Part I 
 Prologue — Land of Waves 

left|
On one of his missions, Zabuza became hired by Gatō to kill a bridge builder named Tazuna who is a threat to his employer's business. When the Demon Brothers failed to eliminate Tazuna — intimidating a furious Gatō with his sword — Zabuza decided to take care of the bridge-builder personally. Upon tracking down his target, Zabuza found that Tazuna was being protected by Kakashi Hatake and his students. Zabuza claimed that he should kill the bridge builder, when Kakashi activated his sharingan after which Zabuza declared that it was a great honor to behold the famous sharingan and added that it was a fearsome ability that allows the user to copy the jutsus of their adversary and added that when he worked in the assassination corps of the fog village he carried a guide with him in which Kakashi's name appeared as a shinobi who had copied 1000 jutsus. Already tired of talking, he insisted on his task of eliminating Tazuna but assumes that he will have to fight Kakashi. 

Zabuza proceeds to use his Hiding in Mist Technique and names eight vital locations, naming which one he should cut first. He then appears behind Team 7 and tries to attack them, but Kakashi stabs him with his kunai. Kakashi had used the Water Clone technique and tries to attack him. He realises that the shinobi had copied his ability and is surprised by it while pointing the kunai at him. However, the mist ninja declares that it will take more than copying him to defeat him. Zabuza realised that he copied his jutsu while Kakashi's clone declared that he doesn't let his teammates die to confuse him, but once again, another clone dissolved and the infamous shinobi appeared behind him, declaring that he was not someone easy to defeat. After this, the real one attacked him and threw him into the lake, but noticed Makibishi spikes on the ground.

Soon after the battle began, Zabuza managed to catch Kakashi off guard, and trapped him with his Water Prison Technique. Needing to stay with Kakashi to keep him imprisoned, Zabuza sent a water clone to kill Tazuna and the rest of Kakashi's team, believing it to be a simple matter. Through the clone, he looks at the ninja armbands but emphasizes that a true shinobi is someone who has been through life or death situations. Naruto sees his armband underneath the clone and approaches only to retrieve it again, declaring that he should write it down in his notebook that he will be the one to become Hokage. Zabuza asks him if he is still trying to be a ninja and then adds that at his age, his hands are stained with blood. Kakashi mentions his nickname and mentions the final test at the Bloody Mist Village. Naruto wonders about it and the ninja replies that it was a fight to the death between close comrades forced to kill each other. Kakashi states that the test was repealed because an underage child eliminated the over one hundred candidates, Zabuza adds that it was a lot of fun and then attacks Sasuke Uchiha unexpectedly with a headlock. 

However, Naruto Uzumaki created a plan and with the help of Sasuke Uchiha, managed to sneak up on Zabuza, Naruto gives a Fūma Shuriken to Sasuke that he throws at the true body but he stops it with his hand to discover a second shuriken that he dodges with a jump but Naruto reveals himself and throws a kunai at him forcing him to undo the technique and causing a cut that makes him enraged but Kakashi, now free, Kakashi stops the attack and tells him that he will not fall for the same jutsu again.  Kakashi and Zabuza resumed their battle,both performing the Water Release: Water Dragon Bullet Technique though Kakashi's Sharingan quickly gave him the upper hand. Copying Zabuza's Water Release: Great Waterfall Technique before he could use it, Kakashi managed to defeat Zabuza. 

Before Zabuza could be killed by Kakashi, however, Haku appeared, disguised as a hunter-nin, and threw two needles into Zabuza's neck, apparently killing him. Taking Zabuza's body away, under the guise of needing to destroy it, Haku revived Zabuza, the needles having been used to paralyse him. Although Zabuza's life had been saved, he needed a week to recover, and he planned to kill Tazuna and Kakashi then.

left|
A week later, Zabuza and Haku appeared before Team 7 for a rematch. As Haku dealt with Kakashi's students, Zabuza dealt with Kakashi. Having been told how the Sharingan worked by Haku, Zabuza blanketed the area in a thick mist and kept his eyes closed to negate both of the Sharingan's capabilities. In doing so, Zabuza was able to slash Kakashi with his sword, greatly damaging his opponent. Kakashi, however, allowed himself to be attacked, and summoned his ninken to sniff out the blood, now on Zabuza's sword as well as take advantage of the fact Zabuza was keeping his eyes closed in a heavy fog to land a surprise attack and pin him down. 

With Zabuza unable to fight back, Kakashi prepared to kill Zabuza with his Lightning Cutter, and charged at Zabuza. Before the Lightning Cutter could meet its mark, however, Haku appeared as a human shield, and took the full force of the attack, fulfilling his promise of being a tool for his master. Freed as a result of Haku's intervention, and not willing to allow the opening Haku had created to go to waste, Zabuza tried to slash through Haku's body to kill Kakashi, but Kakashi was able to avoid it and injure Zabuza in the arm, disabling him. 

With Zabuza no longer able to battle, Gatō arrived, and revoked their agreement so that he could have his own henchmen kill Tazuna instead. No longer having a reason to kill Tazuna, Zabuza ended his battle with Kakashi, although Naruto was not satisfied by this. Angered that Haku died for Zabuza, while Zabuza had shown no signs of remorse, Naruto lectured him on the feelings Haku had for him, and the loyalty he felt towards Zabuza.

Brought to tears by Naruto's words, Zabuza revealed that he really did care about Haku, and valued him higher than a simple tool. Wanting to repent for what he had done, Zabuza asks Naruto for a kunai. Naruto responds by throwing a kunai at him to which Zabuza jumps up and clutches it with his teeth and charges through Gatō's men to get to Gatō, being stabbed multiple times along the way. Upon reaching Gatō, Zabuza slashed and killed him, before collapsing due to his injuries. As Gatō's men fled, Zabuza asked Kakashi if he could be brought to Haku to see his face again, to which Kakashi complied. Being by Haku's side in death, as Haku was by in his life, Zabuza, as he passed out, wished that he could go to the same place as Haku.

Kakashi believed that they would be able to go to that place together. After mourning his and Haku's deaths, Team 7 buried them next to each other, with the Kubikiribōchō stabbed into the ground.

 Part II 
 Fourth Shinobi World War: Confrontation 

left|
In preparation for the Fourth Shinobi World War, Zabuza was reincarnated by Kabuto Yakushi to fight against the Allied Shinobi Forces, before being mobilised alongside Haku, Gari, Pakura and Toroi. Overhearing Zabuza as he told Haku that they were no longer in the afterlife, Gari informed them of their current situation, infuriating Zabuza who did not want to obey someone who would stoop so low as to use the dead.

When later ambushed by the Surprise Attack Division, Haku protected them both from the explosive tags carried by Sai's ink birds, though Zabuza indicated that it was unnecessary after he observed the others regenerating. This irritated him further, since not only were they brought back, but they were also made impossible to kill. Remarking that he was the only one amongst his group to not possess a kekkei genkai, Zabuza stormed the recently grounded opposition but was intercepted by Kakashi, whom he never expected to confront again. Greeting Sakura and noting her growth since they last met, Zabuza inquired about Naruto, learning from Kakashi how famous he had become since his death.

left|
As Kabuto erased their consciousness, Zabuza pleaded with Kakashi to stop him no matter what it took, as his humanity was already dead. Enveloping the battlefield in a thick mist, Zabuza then assaulted the Third Division, until he was confronted by Kakashi. Amidst the battle, the previous generation of the Seven Ninja Swordsmen of the Mist were summoned to the field in order for Akatsuki to retain the upper hand, with Zabuza soon joining them whilst wielding his broken Kubikiribōchō. During the ensuing battle, after surviving a futile bombardment of various techniques, Zabuza's blade began to reform using the iron collected from the blood of his victims.

Kakashi eventually moved in from behind to incapacitate him, but once again, Haku intercepted the blow. Slicing clean through Haku to attack, Zabuza bisected the former while only slightly injuring Kakashi. With his blade fully reformed, Zabuza charged towards him but as they clashed, Kakashi severed Zabuza's sword-holding arm and impaled him through his chest. This provided Ensui Nara with an opportunity to immobilise Zabuza, where he was then captured and sealed by Maki, causing the mist to clear.

 Fourth Shinobi World War: Climax 

Later, with the release of the Impure World Reincarnation technique, a light of sorts encased Zabuza's sealed body as the technique was dispelled and his soul was returned to the afterlife.

 Legacy 
left|
Following Zabuza's death, Kirigakure ninja began associating him with members of Team 7; Kisame Hoshigaki referenced Zabuza when he first met Kakashi,Naruto episode 82 while the Fifth Mizukage, Ao and Chōjūrō believe Sasuke was the one who defeated him and Haku.Naruto chapter 460, page 1Naruto chapter 466, page 1 However, Zabuza himself gave Naruto the credit for his defeat.Naruto chapter 521, page 16 Zabuza's sword is taken from his grave site in Part II by Suigetsu Hōzuki (in the anime, it was Tenzen Daikoku from whom Suigetsu retrieved the sword).Naruto chapter 347, page 14Naruto Shippūden episode 115 During his and Kakashi's exchange following Zabuza's reincarnation, Kakashi admits that it was because of him and Haku that Naruto strove to become the ninja and hero that he is. Naruto himself credits Zabuza and Haku as people who had a great influence on his life and his views on the world.Naruto chapter 690

 In Other Media 
 Video Games 

 Live Action 
 Live Spectacle Naruto  

Asahi Uchida plays as Zabuza in this stage play adaption.

 Trivia 
 The kanji of his first name literally mean ,  and ; putting it together, it roughly means "never cut twice". "Momochi" means ; like all members of the Seven Ninja Swordsmen, his surname is derived from a type of produce. 
 Zabuza's surname, "Momochi", may also be a reference to the famous ninja Momochi Sandayū, though his name is written in different kanji.
 Despite his short appearance in the series, Zabuza was still very popular in the character popularity polls.
 Zabuza made a cameo appearance in a omake Naruto: Shippūden episode 129, appearing on a lantern.
 He also made a cameo in a crowd shot in Naruto: Shippūden episode 183 alongside Haku, Hayate Gekkō, and several Ame ninja.
 Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Zabuza in Part 1 make him 188 cm.
 According to the databook(s):
 Zabuza's hobby was sharpening edged tools.
 Zabuza wished to fight the five Kage.
 Zabuza's least favourite food was fresh vegetables.
 Zabuza had completed 191 official missions in total: 4 D-rank, 67 C-rank, 79 B-rank, 29 A-rank, 12 S-rank.
 Zabuza's favourite word was .
 Zabuza has been shown to emanate a shroud that takes the form of an oni-like creature, which might have been where his nickname  originated from.Naruto chapter 32, page 15Naruto chapter 521, page 17
 In episode 265, in Zabuza's flashback he is shown with the dark grey eyes, as if he was already in the Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation. In another flashback, Zabuza walked over and laid down next to Haku, dying. However, in the actual scene Kakashi carries him to Haku as he asked for his final request.
In 2019, during a TV interview, Masashi Kishimoto revealed that he was originally going to give Zabuza the name Momotarō (桃太郎), until his editor suggested the name Zabuza instead, to which he agreed.
 Zabuza's databook age may be an error. His massacring of over a hundred academy students occurred when he was nine, which according to the databook would have been seventeen years before the start of the series, but Kakashi states it took place ten years earlier instead.
 Zabuza's death is not unlike the death of Musashibō Benkei, an old Japanese warrior monk who died standing up whilst on an infamous bridge after being stabbed with many swords and had his body littered with countless arrows when close combat proved too dangerous due to the amount of casualties suffered by his hands alone.

 Quotes 
 (To Team 7) "When you've hovered between life and death so many times that it doesn't faze you, you may be called a ninja. When you've become so deadly that your profile has been entered into my bingo book, then you may have earned the title ninja."Naruto chapter 13, pages 8-9
 (To Naruto) "When I was your age, my hands were already soaked in blood…"Naruto chapter 14, page 5
 (To Naruto) "Shut up kid, Haku's already dead… As I was used by Gatō, I used Haku. That was all. I've said it already… in the world of shinobi, there are only those who use and those whom are used. We shinobi are simply tools… what I wanted was his blood, not him… I have no regrets."Naruto chapter 32, page 8
 (To Naruto) "You talk too much, kid... your words cut deep... deeper than any blade."
 (To Naruto about Haku) "…You don't need to say any more… It pained him to have to fight you… Haku fought not only for me… he fought for you guys too. He was too kind. I'm glad I got to face you guys in the end. You may be right… a shinobi is still a human… we may not be able to become emotionless tools…"Naruto chapter 32, page 13
 (To Gatō) "Uh uh… I won't be joining Haku. Where he's gone I cannot follow. We wouldn't be welcome where Haku's gone to. Hell's where we're going, Gatō!"Naruto chapter 32, page 17
 (To Gatō) "Even the unremarkable Demon of the Hidden Mist can die and become a real Demon in hell! This will be fun!!! We'll have plenty of time to see if I'm a baby devil down in hell!!"
 (Last words to Haku) "You were always at my side, the least I can do is to be beside you at the end. I know it cannot be, but I wish I could go to where you have gone. How I wish I could join you there, Haku."Naruto chapter 33, page 13
 (To Kakashi after being reincarnated) Naruto chapter 522, page 6