Title: Ōnami
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Ōnami
-----------------------

is a miner in the Land of Water.

 Personality 
Ōnami is a well-meaning, but trusting man. In his capacity as chief, he rushed to hire miners to boost the economy of Dotō Island, but neglected to run background checks, allowing bandits to infiltrate his crew. As such, his two-shift plan at the mines, which was arranged to avoid anyone stealing gold, ended up helping the bandits. He also takes things at face value, becoming concerned by Konoha sent him only Team 5, and judging Denki by his appearance. However, he is capable of owning up his mistakes, apologising to Denki for how he judged him after Team 5 apprehended the bandits and recovered the gold.

 Appearance 
He is a rather overweight, broad-shouldered man of medium height with a round face and blue eyes. He also has dark short hair, which has a shaved section behind the ears, which, as it were, divides the hairstyle into two parts. Ōnami wears a formal blue suit, as well as a white shirt and tie. As a miner, he carries a white helmet with him, which he puts on when necessary.

 Abilities 
Ōnami is a skilled miner, being able to lead a large mining company.

 New Era 
 Great Sea Battle of Kirigakure Arc 

Following the discovery of gold deposits at Dotō Island, Ōnami became the chief of the mining operation to extract it. As the mining was dangerous due to complex geology, Ōnami commissioned automated puppets from the Land of Fire. While he was unsure that Team 5 was up to the task, he was impressed to learn that the package Denki was struggling to carry up the trail to the mine was heavier than even he could lift. At the mine, he showed up the puppets to his crew, but was taken hostage by bandits who had infiltrated. The bandits locked them inside, but Denki was able to use the puppets to create an escape. After Team 5 apprehended them and recovered the gold, Ōnami apologised for his earlier judgement and praised Team 5.

Later, the Funato clan invaded the island, separating Team 5 from Ōnami, the miners and the Konoha Scientific Ninja Tool researchers. They were taken hostage and forced to gather all the gold in the mines to give to the pirates. Sarada Uchiha and Mitsuki eventually arrived to free Ōnami and the other hostages and escorted them to safety after fending off the pirates. Along with the hostages, Ōnami safely evacuated the island with the help of the Konoha and Kiri-nin.

 Trivia 
 Written as 大波, "Ōnami" means "big wave".