Title: Ōtsutsuki Clan Patriarch
URL: https://naruto.fandom.com/wiki/Ōtsutsuki_Clan_Patriarch
-----------------------

He was a head of the Ōtsutsuki clan's main family on the Moon.

 Background 
Being born as a direct descendant of Hamura into the Ōtsutsuki clan's main family, his Byakugan were taken at birth and put into the Tenseigan as part of the clan's custom. Decades later, he participated in the clan's civil war against the branch family after they misinterpreted Hamura's celestial decree, which ultimately lead to him being killed by the Tenseigan alongside the entire main family.

 Personality 
He was very dutiful and loyal to Hamura. Due to his very old age, he had a vast range of knowledge about his clan and its treasures.

 Appearance 
At birth, he had Byakugan until they were taken out for the Tenseigan. In his younger days, he wore a white ceremonial kimono with blue and orange lines in its sleeves, and a white sash tied over his right shoulder along with shinobi sandals. He also had pale skin and long, auburn hair, a moustache, and goatee.

 Abilities 

While his abilities were not fully showcased, he was at least capable of sharing his past with anyone who seemed worthy to see what he experienced before. He also appeared to be able to tell if a person has a Byakugan despite being blind.

 Blank Period 
 The Last: Naruto the Movie 
Having been detected by Hinata Hyūga in a catacomb beneath a temple in an ancient ruin of the Ōtsutsuki's "Ninja City", he shared a vision of the past about the Energy Vessel and Tenseigan with her, making Hinata lose consciousness after seeing their tremendous powers. His last words before crumbling into dust was that the "Byakugan Princess" must stop the Tenseigan from reviving.

Later, he reappeared before Hinata alongside the other deceased clansmen and told her of the fall of the Ōtsutsuki clan’s main family and Toneri, the last surviving member from the branch family, who was influenced by a twisted and misinterpreted version of Hamura's Celestial Decree. He and the other clansmen later bowed down when Hamura's soul appeared and discussed how she, as the "Byakugan Princess", was the only one capable of destroying the energy vessel, which was being used to control the moon by his descendant Toneri after misinterpreting his will.

pt-br:Patriarca do Clã Ōtsutsuki